
"I hate them for it," cried Hallward. "An artist should create
beautiful things, but should put nothing of his own life into them.
We live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a
form of autobiography. We have lost the abstract sense of beauty.
Some day I will show the world what it is; and for that reason the
world shall never see my portrait of Dorian Gray."

"I think you are wrong, Basil, but I won't argue with you. It is
only the intellectually lost who ever argue. Tell me, is Dorian
Gray very fond of you?"

The painter considered for a few moments. "He likes me," he
answered after a pause; "I know he likes me. Of course I flatter
him dreadfully. I find a strange pleasure in saying things to him
that I know I shall be sorry for having said. As a rule, he is
charming to me, and we sit in the studio and talk of a thousand
things. Now and then, however, he is horribly thoughtless, and
seems to take a real delight in giving me pain. Then I feel, Harry,
that I have given away my whole soul to some one who treats it as
if it were a flower to put in his coat, a bit of decoration to
charm his vanity, an ornament for a summer's day."

"Days in summer, Basil, are apt to linger," murmured Lord Henry.
"Perhaps you will tire sooner than he will. It is a sad thing to
think of, but there is no doubt that genius lasts longer than
beauty. That accounts for the fact that we all take such pains to
over-educate ourselves. In the wild struggle for existence, we want
to have something that endures, and so we fill our minds with
rubbish and facts, in the silly hope of keeping our place. The
thoroughly well-informed man—that is the modern ideal. And the mind
of the thoroughly well-informed man is a dreadful thing. It is like
a bric-a-brac shop, all monsters and dust, with everything priced
above its proper value. I think you will tire first, all the same.
Some day you will look at your friend, and he will seem to you to
be a little out of drawing, or you won't like his tone of colour,
or something. You will bitterly reproach him in your own heart, and
seriously think that he has behaved very badly to you. The next
time he calls, you will be perfectly cold and indifferent. It will
be a great pity, for it will alter you. What you have told me is
quite a romance, a romance of art one might call it, and the worst
of having a romance of any kind is that it leaves one so
unromantic."

"Harry, don't talk like that. As long as I live, the personality
of Dorian Gray will dominate me. You can't feel what I feel. You
change too often."

"Ah, my dear Basil, that is exactly why I can feel it. Those who
are faithful know only the trivial side of love: it is the
faithless who know love's tragedies." And Lord Henry struck a light
on a dainty silver case and began to smoke a cigarette with a
self-conscious and satisfied air, as if he had summed up the world
in a phrase. There was a rustle of chirruping sparrows in the green
lacquer leaves of the ivy, and the blue cloud-shadows chased
themselves across the grass like swallows. How pleasant it was in
the garden! And how delightful other people's emotions were!— much
more delightful than their ideas, it seemed to him. One's own soul,
and the passions of one's friends—those were the fascinating things
in life. He pictured to himself with silent amusement the tedious
luncheon that he had missed by staying so long with Basil Hallward.
Had he gone to his aunt's, he would have been sure to have met Lord
Goodbody there, and the whole conversation would have been about
the feeding of the poor and the necessity for model lodging-houses.
Each class would have preached the importance of those virtues, for
whose exercise there was no necessity in their own lives. The rich
would have spoken on the value of thrift, and the idle grown
eloquent over the dignity of labour. It was charming to have
escaped all that! As he thought of his aunt, an idea seemed to
strike him. He turned to Hallward and said, "My dear fellow, I have
just remembered."

"Remembered what, Harry?"

"Where I heard the name of Dorian Gray."

"Where was it?" asked Hallward, with a slight frown.

"Don't look so angry, Basil. It was at my aunt, Lady Agatha's.
She told me she had discovered a wonderful young man who was going
to help her in the East End, and that his name was Dorian Gray. I
am bound to state that she never told me he was good-looking. Women
have no appreciation of good looks; at least, good women have not.
She said that he was very earnest and had a beautiful nature. I at
once pictured to myself a creature with spectacles and lank hair,
horribly freckled, and tramping about on huge feet. I wish I had
known it was your friend."

