The voice that spoke was cold and cruel. "You are mad, Dorian,
or playing a part," muttered Hallward, frowning.

"You won't? Then I must do it myself," said the young man, and
he tore the curtain from its rod and flung it on the ground.

An exclamation of horror broke from the painter's lips as he saw
in the dim light the hideous face on the canvas grinning at him.
There was something in its expression that filled him with disgust
and loathing. Good heavens! it was Dorian Gray's own face that he
was looking at! The horror, whatever it was, had not yet entirely
spoiled that marvellous beauty. There was still some gold in the
thinning hair and some scarlet on the sensual mouth. The sodden
eyes had kept something of the loveliness of their blue, the noble
curves had not yet completely passed away from chiselled nostrils
and from plastic throat. Yes, it was Dorian himself. But who had
done it? He seemed to recognize his own brushwork, and the frame
was his own design. The idea was monstrous, yet he felt afraid. He
seized the lighted candle, and held it to the picture. In the
left-hand corner was his own name, traced in long letters of bright
vermilion.

It was some foul parody, some infamous ignoble satire. He had
never done that. Still, it was his own picture. He knew it, and he
felt as if his blood had changed in a moment from fire to sluggish
ice. His own picture! What did it mean? Why had it altered? He
turned and looked at Dorian Gray with the eyes of a sick man. His
mouth twitched, and his parched tongue seemed unable to articulate.
He passed his hand across his forehead. It was dank with clammy
sweat.

The young man was leaning against the mantelshelf, watching him
with that strange expression that one sees on the faces of those
who are absorbed in a play when some great artist is acting. There
was neither real sorrow in it nor real joy. There was simply the
passion of the spectator, with perhaps a flicker of triumph in his
eyes. He had taken the flower out of his coat, and was smelling it,
or pretending to do so.

"What does this mean?" cried Hallward, at last. His own voice
sounded shrill and curious in his ears.

"Years ago, when I was a boy," said Dorian Gray, crushing the
flower in his hand, "you met me, flattered me, and taught me to be
vain of my good looks. One day you introduced me to a friend of
yours, who explained to me the wonder of youth, and you finished a
portrait of me that revealed to me the wonder of beauty. In a mad
moment that, even now, I don't know whether I regret or not, I made
a wish, perhaps you would call it a prayer… ."

"I remember it! Oh, how well I remember it! No! the thing is
impossible. The room is damp. Mildew has got into the canvas. The
paints I used had some wretched mineral poison in them. I tell you
the thing is impossible."

"Ah, what is impossible?" murmured the young man, going over to
the window and leaning his forehead against the cold, mist-stained
glass.

"You told me you had destroyed it."

"I was wrong. It has destroyed me."
