


Chapter

14

&#160;


At nine o'clock the next morning his servant came in with a cup
of chocolate on a tray and opened the shutters. Dorian was sleeping
quite peacefully, lying on his right side, with one hand underneath
his cheek. He looked like a boy who had been tired out with play,
or study.

The man had to touch him twice on the shoulder before he woke,
and as he opened his eyes a faint smile passed across his lips, as
though he had been lost in some delightful dream. Yet he had not
dreamed at all. His night had been untroubled by any images of
pleasure or of pain. But youth smiles without any reason. It is one
of its chiefest charms.

He turned round, and leaning upon his elbow, began to sip his
chocolate. The mellow November sun came streaming into the room.
The sky was bright, and there was a genial warmth in the air. It
was almost like a morning in May.

Gradually the events of the preceding night crept with silent,
blood-stained feet into his brain and reconstructed themselves
there with terrible distinctness. He winced at the memory of all
that he had suffered, and for a moment the same curious feeling of
loathing for Basil Hallward that had made him kill him as he sat in
the chair came back to him, and he grew cold with passion. The dead
man was still sitting there, too, and in the sunlight now. How
horrible that was! Such hideous things were for the darkness, not
for the day.

He felt that if he brooded on what he had gone through he would
sicken or grow mad. There were sins whose fascination was more in
the memory than in the doing of them, strange triumphs that
gratified the pride more than the passions, and gave to the
intellect a quickened sense of joy, greater than any joy they
brought, or could ever bring, to the senses. But this was not one
of them. It was a thing to be driven out of the mind, to be drugged
with poppies, to be strangled lest it might strangle one
itself.

When the half-hour struck, he passed his hand across his
forehead, and then got up hastily and dressed himself with even
more than his usual care, giving a good deal of attention to the
choice of his necktie and scarf-pin and changing his rings more
than once. He spent a long time also over breakfast, tasting the
various dishes, talking to his valet about some new liveries that
he was thinking of getting made for the servants at Selby, and
going through his correspondence. At some of the letters, he
smiled. Three of them bored him. One he read several times over and
then tore up with a slight look of annoyance in his face. "That
awful thing, a woman's memory!" as Lord Henry had once said.

