
"It will be time enough, then, if you are back at half-past
seven, Francis. Or stay: just leave my things out for dressing. You
can have the evening to yourself. I am not dining at home, so I
shall not want you."

"Thank you, sir," said the man, leaving the room.

"Now, Alan, there is not a moment to be lost. How heavy this
chest is! I'll take it for you. You bring the other things." He
spoke rapidly and in an authoritative manner. Campbell felt
dominated by him. They left the room together.

When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and
turned it in the lock. Then he stopped, and a troubled look came
into his eyes. He shuddered. "I don't think I can go in, Alan," he
murmured.

"It is nothing to me. I don't require you," said Campbell
coldly.

Dorian half opened the door. As he did so, he saw the face of
his portrait leering in the sunlight. On the floor in front of it
the torn curtain was lying. He remembered that the night before he
had forgotten, for the first time in his life, to hide the fatal
canvas, and was about to rush forward, when he drew back with a
shudder.

What was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and
glistening, on one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated
blood? How horrible it was!—more horrible, it seemed to him for the
moment, than the silent thing that he knew was stretched across the
table, the thing whose grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted
carpet showed him that it had not stirred, but was still there, as
he had left it.

He heaved a deep breath, opened the door a little wider, and
with half-closed eyes and averted head, walked quickly in,
determined that he would not look even once upon the dead man.
Then, stooping down and taking up the gold-and-purple hanging, he
flung it right over the picture.

There he stopped, feeling afraid to turn round, and his eyes
fixed themselves on the intricacies of the pattern before him. He
heard Campbell bringing in the heavy chest, and the irons, and the
other things that he had required for his dreadful work. He began
to wonder if he and Basil Hallward had ever met, and, if so, what
they had thought of each other.

"Leave me now," said a stern voice behind him.

