"Did you go to the club?"

"Yes," he answered. Then he bit his lip. "No, I don't mean that.
I didn't go to the club. I walked about. I forget what I did… . How
inquisitive you are, Harry! You always want to know what one has
been doing. I always want to forget what I have been doing. I came
in at half-past two, if you wish to know the exact time. I had left
my latch-key at home, and my servant had to let me in. If you want
any corroborative evidence on the subject, you can ask him."

Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders. "My dear fellow, as if I
cared! Let us go up to the drawing-room. No sherry, thank you, Mr.
Chapman. Something has happened to you, Dorian. Tell me what it is.
You are not yourself to-night."

"Don't mind me, Harry. I am irritable, and out of temper. I
shall come round and see you to-morrow, or next day. Make my
excuses to Lady Narborough. I shan't go upstairs. I shall go home.
I must go home."

"All right, Dorian. I dare say I shall see you to-morrow at
tea-time. The duchess is coming."

"I will try to be there, Harry," he said, leaving the room. As
he drove back to his own house, he was conscious that the sense of
terror he thought he had strangled had come back to him. Lord
Henry's casual questioning had made him lose his nerves for the
moment, and he wanted his nerve still. Things that were dangerous
had to be destroyed. He winced. He hated the idea of even touching
them.

Yet it had to be done. He realized that, and when he had locked
the door of his library, he opened the secret press into which he
had thrust Basil Hallward's coat and bag. A huge fire was blazing.
He piled another log on it. The smell of the singeing clothes and
burning leather was horrible. It took him three-quarters of an hour
to consume everything. At the end he felt faint and sick, and
having lit some Algerian pastilles in a pierced copper brazier, he
bathed his hands and forehead with a cool musk-scented vinegar.

Suddenly he started. His eyes grew strangely bright, and he
gnawed nervously at his underlip. Between two of the windows stood
a large Florentine cabinet, made out of ebony and inlaid with ivory
and blue lapis. He watched it as though it were a thing that could
fascinate and make afraid, as though it held something that he
longed for and yet almost loathed. His breath quickened. A mad
craving came over him. He lit a cigarette and then threw it away.
His eyelids drooped till the long fringed lashes almost touched his
cheek. But he still watched the cabinet. At last he got up from the
sofa on which he had been lying, went over to it, and having
unlocked it, touched some hidden spring. A triangular drawer passed
slowly out. His fingers moved instinctively towards it, dipped in,
and closed on something. It was a small Chinese box of black and
gold-dust lacquer, elaborately wrought, the sides patterned with
curved waves, and the silken cords hung with round crystals and
tasselled in plaited metal threads. He opened it. Inside was a
green paste, waxy in lustre, the odour curiously heavy and
persistent.

He hesitated for some moments, with a strangely immobile smile
upon his face. Then shivering, though the atmosphere of the room
was terribly hot, he drew himself up and glanced at the clock. It
was twenty minutes to twelve. He put the box back, shutting the
cabinet doors as he did so, and went into his bedroom.

As midnight was striking bronze blows upon the dusky air, Dorian
Gray, dressed commonly, and with a muffler wrapped round his
throat, crept quietly out of his house. In Bond Street he found a
hansom with a good horse. He hailed it and in a low voice gave the
driver an address.

The man shook his head. "It is too far for me," he muttered.
