Then they passed by lonely brickfields. The fog was lighter
here, and he could see the strange, bottle-shaped kilns with their
orange, fanlike tongues of fire. A dog barked as they went by, and
far away in the darkness some wandering sea-gull screamed. The
horse stumbled in a rut, then swerved aside and broke into a
gallop.

After some time they left the clay road and rattled again over
rough-paven streets. Most of the windows were dark, but now and
then fantastic shadows were silhouetted against some lamplit blind.
He watched them curiously. They moved like monstrous marionettes
and made gestures like live things. He hated them. A dull rage was
in his heart. As they turned a corner, a woman yelled something at
them from an open door, and two men ran after the hansom for about
a hundred yards. The driver beat at them with his whip.

It is said that passion makes one think in a circle. Certainly
with hideous iteration the bitten lips of Dorian Gray shaped and
reshaped those subtle words that dealt with soul and sense, till he
had found in them the full expression, as it were, of his mood, and
justified, by intellectual approval, passions that without such
justification would still have dominated his temper. From cell to
cell of his brain crept the one thought; and the wild desire to
live, most terrible of all man's appetites, quickened into force
each trembling nerve and fibre. Ugliness that had once been hateful
to him because it made things real, became dear to him now for that
very reason. Ugliness was the one reality. The coarse brawl, the
loathsome den, the crude violence of disordered life, the very
vileness of thief and outcast, were more vivid, in their intense
actuality of impression, than all the gracious shapes of art, the
dreamy shadows of song. They were what he needed for forgetfulness.
In three days he would be free.

Suddenly the man drew up with a jerk at the top of a dark lane.
Over the low roofs and jagged chimney-stacks of the houses rose the
black masts of ships. Wreaths of white mist clung like ghostly
sails to the yards.

"Somewhere about here, sir, ain't it?" he asked huskily through
the trap.

Dorian started and peered round. "This will do," he answered,
and having got out hastily and given the driver the extra fare he
had promised him, he walked quickly in the direction of the quay.
Here and there a lantern gleamed at the stern of some huge
merchantman. The light shook and splintered in the puddles. A red
glare came from an outward-bound steamer that was coaling. The
slimy pavement looked like a wet mackintosh.

He hurried on towards the left, glancing back now and then to
see if he was being followed. In about seven or eight minutes he
reached a small shabby house that was wedged in between two gaunt
factories. In one of the top-windows stood a lamp. He stopped and
gave a peculiar knock.

After a little time he heard steps in the passage and the chain
being unhooked. The door opened quietly, and he went in without
saying a word to the squat misshapen figure that flattened itself
into the shadow as he passed. At the end of the hall hung a
tattered green curtain that swayed and shook in the gusty wind
which had followed him in from the street. He dragged it aside and
entered a long low room which looked as if it had once been a
third-rate dancing-saloon. Shrill flaring gas-jets, dulled and
distorted in the fly-blown mirrors that faced them, were ranged
round the walls. Greasy reflectors of ribbed tin backed them,
making quivering disks of light. The floor was covered with
ochre-coloured sawdust, trampled here and there into mud, and
stained with dark rings of spilled liquor. Some Malays were
crouching by a little charcoal stove, playing with bone counters
and showing their white teeth as they chattered. In one corner,
with his head buried in his arms, a sailor sprawled over a table,
and by the tawdrily painted bar that ran across one complete side
stood two haggard women, mocking an old man who was brushing the
sleeves of his coat with an expression of disgust. "He thinks he's
got red ants on him," laughed one of them, as Dorian passed by. The
man looked at her in terror and began to whimper.

At the end of the room there was a little staircase, leading to
a darkened chamber. As Dorian hurried up its three rickety steps,
the heavy odour of opium met him. He heaved a deep breath, and his
nostrils quivered with pleasure. When he entered, a young man with
smooth yellow hair, who was bending over a lamp lighting a long
thin pipe, looked up at him and nodded in a hesitating manner.

"You here, Adrian?" muttered Dorian.

"Where else should I be?" he answered, listlessly. "None of the
chaps will speak to me now."
