"Oh, I will make your peace with my aunt. She is quite devoted
to you. And I don't think it really matters about your not being
there. The audience probably thought it was a duet. When Aunt
Agatha sits down to the piano, she makes quite enough noise for two
people."

"That is very horrid to her, and not very nice to me," answered
Dorian, laughing.

Lord Henry looked at him. Yes, he was certainly wonderfully
handsome, with his finely curved scarlet lips, his frank blue eyes,
his crisp gold hair. There was something in his face that made one
trust him at once. All the candour of youth was there, as well as
all youth's passionate purity. One felt that he had kept himself
unspotted from the world. No wonder Basil Hallward worshipped
him.

"You are too charming to go in for philanthropy, Mr. Gray—far
too charming." And Lord Henry flung himself down on the divan and
opened his cigarette-case.

The painter had been busy mixing his colours and getting his
brushes ready. He was looking worried, and when he heard Lord
Henry's last remark, he glanced at him, hesitated for a moment, and
then said, "Harry, I want to finish this picture to-day. Would you
think it awfully rude of me if I asked you to go away?"

Lord Henry smiled and looked at Dorian Gray. "Am I to go, Mr.
Gray?" he asked.

"Oh, please don't, Lord Henry. I see that Basil is in one of his
sulky moods, and I can't bear him when he sulks. Besides, I want
you to tell me why I should not go in for philanthropy."

"I don't know that I shall tell you that, Mr. Gray. It is so
tedious a subject that one would have to talk seriously about it.
But I certainly shall not run away, now that you have asked me to
stop. You don't really mind, Basil, do you? You have often told me
that you liked your sitters to have some one to chat to."

Hallward bit his lip. "If Dorian wishes it, of course you must
stay. Dorian's whims are laws to everybody, except himself."

Lord Henry took up his hat and gloves. "You are very pressing,
Basil, but I am afraid I must go. I have promised to meet a man at
the Orleans. Good-bye, Mr. Gray. Come and see me some afternoon in
Curzon Street. I am nearly always at home at five o'clock. Write to
me when you are coming. I should be sorry to miss you."

"Basil," cried Dorian Gray, "if Lord Henry Wotton goes, I shall
go, too. You never open your lips while you are painting, and it is
horribly dull standing on a platform and trying to look pleasant.
Ask him to stay. I insist upon it."
