"Have you had good sport, Geoffrey?" he asked.

"Not very good, Dorian. I think most of the birds have gone to
the open. I dare say it will be better after lunch, when we get to
new ground."

Dorian strolled along by his side. The keen aromatic air, the
brown and red lights that glimmered in the wood, the hoarse cries
of the beaters ringing out from time to time, and the sharp snaps
of the guns that followed, fascinated him and filled him with a
sense of delightful freedom. He was dominated by the carelessness
of happiness, by the high indifference of joy.

Suddenly from a lumpy tussock of old grass some twenty yards in
front of them, with black-tipped ears erect and long hinder limbs
throwing it forward, started a hare. It bolted for a thicket of
alders. Sir Geoffrey put his gun to his shoulder, but there was
something in the animal's grace of movement that strangely charmed
Dorian Gray, and he cried out at once, "Don't shoot it, Geoffrey.
Let it live."

"What nonsense, Dorian!" laughed his companion, and as the hare
bounded into the thicket, he fired. There were two cries heard, the
cry of a hare in pain, which is dreadful, the cry of a man in
agony, which is worse.

"Good heavens! I have hit a beater!" exclaimed Sir Geoffrey.
"What an ass the man was to get in front of the guns! Stop shooting
there!" he called out at the top of his voice. "A man is hurt."

The head-keeper came running up with a stick in his hand.

"Where, sir? Where is he?" he shouted. At the same time, the
firing ceased along the line.

"Here," answered Sir Geoffrey angrily, hurrying towards the
thicket. "Why on earth don't you keep your men back? Spoiled my
shooting for the day."

Dorian watched them as they plunged into the alder-clump,
brushing the lithe swinging branches aside. In a few moments they
emerged, dragging a body after them into the sunlight. He turned
away in horror. It seemed to him that misfortune followed wherever
he went. He heard Sir Geoffrey ask if the man was really dead, and
the affirmative answer of the keeper. The wood seemed to him to
have become suddenly alive with faces. There was the trampling of
myriad feet and the low buzz of voices. A great copper-breasted
pheasant came beating through the boughs overhead.

After a few moments—that were to him, in his perturbed state,
like endless hours of pain—he felt a hand laid on his shoulder. He
started and looked round.
