
"Then he asked me if I wrote for any of the newspapers. I told
him I never even read them. He seemed terribly disappointed at
that, and confided to me that all the dramatic critics were in a
conspiracy against him, and that they were every one of them to be
bought."

"I should not wonder if he was quite right there. But, on the
other hand, judging from their appearance, most of them cannot be
at all expensive."

"Well, he seemed to think they were beyond his means," laughed
Dorian. "By this time, however, the lights were being put out in
the theatre, and I had to go. He wanted me to try some cigars that
he strongly recommended. I declined. The next night, of course, I
arrived at the place again. When he saw me, he made me a low bow
and assured me that I was a munificent patron of art. He was a most
offensive brute, though he had an extraordinary passion for
Shakespeare. He told me once, with an air of pride, that his five
bankruptcies were entirely due to 'The Bard,' as he insisted on
calling him. He seemed to think it a distinction."

"It was a distinction, my dear Dorian—a great distinction. Most
people become bankrupt through having invested too heavily in the
prose of life. To have ruined one's self over poetry is an honour.
But when did you first speak to Miss Sibyl Vane?"

"The third night. She had been playing Rosalind. I could not
help going round. I had thrown her some flowers, and she had looked
at me—at least I fancied that she had. The old Jew was persistent.
He seemed determined to take me behind, so I consented. It was
curious my not wanting to know her, wasn't it?"

"No; I don't think so."

"My dear Harry, why?"

"I will tell you some other time. Now I want to know about the
girl."

"Sibyl? Oh, she was so shy and so gentle. There is something of
a child about her. Her eyes opened wide in exquisite wonder when I
told her what I thought of her performance, and she seemed quite
unconscious of her power. I think we were both rather nervous. The
old Jew stood grinning at the doorway of the dusty greenroom,
making elaborate speeches about us both, while we stood looking at
each other like children. He would insist on calling me 'My Lord,'
so I had to assure Sibyl that I was not anything of the kind. She
said quite simply to me, 'You look more like a prince. I must call
you Prince Charming.'"

"Upon my word, Dorian, Miss Sibyl knows how to pay
compliments."

