
"But do you approve of it, Harry?" asked the painter, walking up
and down the room and biting his lip. "You can't approve of it,
possibly. It is some silly infatuation."

"I never approve, or disapprove, of anything now. It is an
absurd attitude to take towards life. We are not sent into the
world to air our moral prejudices. I never take any notice of what
common people say, and I never interfere with what charming people
do. If a personality fascinates me, whatever mode of expression
that personality selects is absolutely delightful to me. Dorian
Gray falls in love with a beautiful girl who acts Juliet, and
proposes to marry her. Why not? If he wedded Messalina, he would be
none the less interesting. You know I am not a champion of
marriage. The real drawback to marriage is that it makes one
unselfish. And unselfish people are colourless. They lack
individuality. Still, there are certain temperaments that marriage
makes more complex. They retain their egotism, and add to it many
other egos. They are forced to have more than one life. They become
more highly organized, and to be highly organized is, I should
fancy, the object of man's existence. Besides, every experience is
of value, and whatever one may say against marriage, it is
certainly an experience. I hope that Dorian Gray will make this
girl his wife, passionately adore her for six months, and then
suddenly become fascinated by some one else. He would be a
wonderful study."

"You don't mean a single word of all that, Harry; you know you
don't. If Dorian Gray's life were spoiled, no one would be sorrier
than yourself. You are much better than you pretend to be."

Lord Henry laughed. "The reason we all like to think so well of
others is that we are all afraid for ourselves. The basis of
optimism is sheer terror. We think that we are generous because we
credit our neighbour with the possession of those virtues that are
likely to be a benefit to us. We praise the banker that we may
overdraw our account, and find good qualities in the highwayman in
the hope that he may spare our pockets. I mean everything that I
have said. I have the greatest contempt for optimism. As for a
spoiled life, no life is spoiled but one whose growth is arrested.
If you want to mar a nature, you have merely to reform it. As for
marriage, of course that would be silly, but there are other and
more interesting bonds between men and women. I will certainly
encourage them. They have the charm of being fashionable. But here
is Dorian himself. He will tell you more than I can."

"My dear Harry, my dear Basil, you must both congratulate me!"
said the lad, throwing off his evening cape with its satin-lined
wings and shaking each of his friends by the hand in turn. "I have
never been so happy. Of course, it is sudden— all really delightful
things are. And yet it seems to me to be the one thing I have been
looking for all my life." He was flushed with excitement and
pleasure, and looked extraordinarily handsome.

"I hope you will always be very happy, Dorian," said Hallward,
"but I don't quite forgive you for not having let me know of your
engagement. You let Harry know."

"And I don't forgive you for being late for dinner," broke in
Lord Henry, putting his hand on the lad's shoulder and smiling as
he spoke. "Come, let us sit down and try what the new chef here is
like, and then you will tell us how it all came about."

"There is really not much to tell," cried Dorian as they took
their seats at the small round table. "What happened was simply
this. After I left you yesterday evening, Harry, I dressed, had
some dinner at that little Italian restaurant in Rupert Street you
introduced me to, and went down at eight o'clock to the theatre.
Sibyl was playing Rosalind. Of course, the scenery was dreadful and
the Orlando absurd. But Sibyl! You should have seen her! When she
came on in her boy's clothes, she was perfectly wonderful. She wore
a moss-coloured velvet jerkin with cinnamon sleeves, slim, brown,
cross-gartered hose, a dainty little green cap with a hawk's
feather caught in a jewel, and a hooded cloak lined with dull red.
She had never seemed to me more exquisite. She had all the delicate
grace of that Tanagra figurine that you have in your studio, Basil.
Her hair clustered round her face like dark leaves round a pale
rose. As for her acting—well, you shall see her to-night. She is
simply a born artist. I sat in the dingy box absolutely enthralled.
I forgot that I was in London and in the nineteenth century. I was
away with my love in a forest that no man had ever seen. After the
performance was over, I went behind and spoke to her. As we were
sitting together, suddenly there came into her eyes a look that I
had never seen there before. My lips moved towards hers. We kissed
each other. I can't describe to you what I felt at that moment. It
seemed to me that all my life had been narrowed to one perfect
point of rose-coloured joy. She trembled all over and shook like a
white narcissus. Then she flung herself on her knees and kissed my
hands. I feel that I should not tell you all this, but I can't help
it. Of course, our engagement is a dead secret. She has not even
told her own mother. I don't know what my guardians will say. Lord
Radley is sure to be furious. I don't care. I shall be of age in
less than a year, and then I can do what I like. I have been right,
Basil, haven't I, to take my love out of poetry and to find my wife
in Shakespeare's plays? Lips that Shakespeare taught to speak have
whispered their secret in my ear. I have had the arms of Rosalind
around me, and kissed Juliet on the mouth."

"Yes, Dorian, I suppose you were right," said Hallward
slowly.

"Have you seen her to-day?" asked Lord Henry.

