
The girl grew white, and trembled. She clenched her hands
together, and her voice seemed to catch in her throat. "You are not
serious, Dorian?" she murmured. "You are acting."

"Acting! I leave that to you. You do it so well," he answered
bitterly.

She rose from her knees and, with a piteous expression of pain
in her face, came across the room to him. She put her hand upon his
arm and looked into his eyes. He thrust her back. "Don't touch me!"
he cried.

A low moan broke from her, and she flung herself at his feet and
lay there like a trampled flower. "Dorian, Dorian, don't leave me!"
she whispered. "I am so sorry I didn't act well. I was thinking of
you all the time. But I will try—indeed, I will try. It came so
suddenly across me, my love for you. I think I should never have
known it if you had not kissed me— if we had not kissed each other.
Kiss me again, my love. Don't go away from me. I couldn't bear it.
Oh! don't go away from me. My brother&#160;… No; never mind. He
didn't mean it. He was in jest… . But you, oh! can't you forgive me
for to-night? I will work so hard and try to improve. Don't be
cruel to me, because I love you better than anything in the world.
After all, it is only once that I have not pleased you. But you are
quite right, Dorian. I should have shown myself more of an artist.
It was foolish of me, and yet I couldn't help it. Oh, don't leave
me, don't leave me." A fit of passionate sobbing choked her. She
crouched on the floor like a wounded thing, and Dorian Gray, with
his beautiful eyes, looked down at her, and his chiselled lips
curled in exquisite disdain. There is always something ridiculous
about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love. Sibyl
Vane seemed to him to be absurdly melodramatic. Her tears and sobs
annoyed him.

"I am going," he said at last in his calm clear voice. "I don't
wish to be unkind, but I can't see you again. You have disappointed
me."

She wept silently, and made no answer, but crept nearer. Her
little hands stretched blindly out, and appeared to be seeking for
him. He turned on his heel and left the room. In a few moments he
was out of the theatre.

Where he went to he hardly knew. He remembered wandering through
dimly lit streets, past gaunt, black-shadowed archways and
evil-looking houses. Women with hoarse voices and harsh laughter
had called after him. Drunkards had reeled by, cursing and
chattering to themselves like monstrous apes. He had seen grotesque
children huddled upon door-steps, and heard shrieks and oaths from
gloomy courts.

As the dawn was just breaking, he found himself close to Covent
Garden. The darkness lifted, and, flushed with faint fires, the sky
hollowed itself into a perfect pearl. Huge carts filled with
nodding lilies rumbled slowly down the polished empty street. The
air was heavy with the perfume of the flowers, and their beauty
seemed to bring him an anodyne for his pain. He followed into the
market and watched the men unloading their waggons. A white-smocked
carter offered him some cherries. He thanked him, wondered why he
refused to accept any money for them, and began to eat them
listlessly. They had been plucked at midnight, and the coldness of
the moon had entered into them. A long line of boys carrying crates
of striped tulips, and of yellow and red roses, defiled in front of
him, threading their way through the huge, jade-green piles of
vegetables. Under the portico, with its grey, sun-bleached pillars,
loitered a troop of draggled bareheaded girls, waiting for the
auction to be over. Others crowded round the swinging doors of the
coffee-house in the piazza. The heavy cart-horses slipped and
stamped upon the rough stones, shaking their bells and trappings.
Some of the drivers were lying asleep on a pile of sacks.
Iris-necked and pink-footed, the pigeons ran about picking up
seeds.

After a little while, he hailed a hansom and drove home. For a
few moments he loitered upon the doorstep, looking round at the
silent square, with its blank, close-shuttered windows and its
staring blinds. The sky was pure opal now, and the roofs of the
houses glistened like silver against it. From some chimney opposite
a thin wreath of smoke was rising. It curled, a violet riband,
through the nacre-coloured air.

In the huge gilt Venetian lantern, spoil of some Doge's barge,
that hung from the ceiling of the great, oak-panelled hall of
entrance, lights were still burning from three flickering jets:
thin blue petals of flame they seemed, rimmed with white fire. He
turned them out and, having thrown his hat and cape on the table,
passed through the library towards the door of his bedroom, a large
octagonal chamber on the ground floor that, in his new-born feeling
for luxury, he had just had decorated for himself and hung with
some curious Renaissance tapestries that had been discovered stored
in a disused attic at Selby Royal. As he was turning the handle of
the door, his eye fell upon the portrait Basil Hallward had painted
of him. He started back as if in surprise. Then he went on into his
own room, looking somewhat puzzled. After he had taken the
button-hole out of his coat, he seemed to hesitate. Finally, he
came back, went over to the picture, and examined it. In the dim
arrested light that struggled through the cream-coloured silk
blinds, the face appeared to him to be a little changed. The
expression looked different. One would have said that there was a
touch of cruelty in the mouth. It was certainly strange.

