"You have done too many foolish things during the last fortnight
to be entitled to give yourself that name, Dorian," answered Lord
Henry with his sweet melancholy smile.

The lad frowned. "I don't like that explanation, Harry," he
rejoined, "but I am glad you don't think I am heartless. I am
nothing of the kind. I know I am not. And yet I must admit that
this thing that has happened does not affect me as it should. It
seems to me to be simply like a wonderful ending to a wonderful
play. It has all the terrible beauty of a Greek tragedy, a tragedy
in which I took a great part, but by which I have not been
wounded."

"It is an interesting question," said Lord Henry, who found an
exquisite pleasure in playing on the lad's unconscious egotism, "an
extremely interesting question. I fancy that the true explanation
is this: It often happens that the real tragedies of life occur in
such an inartistic manner that they hurt us by their crude
violence, their absolute incoherence, their absurd want of meaning,
their entire lack of style. They affect us just as vulgarity
affects us. They give us an impression of sheer brute force, and we
revolt against that. Sometimes, however, a tragedy that possesses
artistic elements of beauty crosses our lives. If these elements of
beauty are real, the whole thing simply appeals to our sense of
dramatic effect. Suddenly we find that we are no longer the actors,
but the spectators of the play. Or rather we are both. We watch
ourselves, and the mere wonder of the spectacle enthralls us. In
the present case, what is it that has really happened? Some one has
killed herself for love of you. I wish that I had ever had such an
experience. It would have made me in love with love for the rest of
my life. The people who have adored me—there have not been very
many, but there have been some—have always insisted on living on,
long after I had ceased to care for them, or they to care for me.
They have become stout and tedious, and when I meet them, they go
in at once for reminiscences. That awful memory of woman! What a
fearful thing it is! And what an utter intellectual stagnation it
reveals! One should absorb the colour of life, but one should never
remember its details. Details are always vulgar."

"I must sow poppies in my garden," sighed Dorian.

"There is no necessity," rejoined his companion. "Life has
always poppies in her hands. Of course, now and then things linger.
I once wore nothing but violets all through one season, as a form
of artistic mourning for a romance that would not die. Ultimately,
however, it did die. I forget what killed it. I think it was her
proposing to sacrifice the whole world for me. That is always a
dreadful moment. It fills one with the terror of eternity.
Well—would you believe it?—a week ago, at Lady Hampshire's, I found
myself seated at dinner next the lady in question, and she insisted
on going over the whole thing again, and digging up the past, and
raking up the future. I had buried my romance in a bed of asphodel.
She dragged it out again and assured me that I had spoiled her
life. I am bound to state that she ate an enormous dinner, so I did
not feel any anxiety. But what a lack of taste she showed! The one
charm of the past is that it is the past. But women never know when
the curtain has fallen. They always want a sixth act, and as soon
as the interest of the play is entirely over, they propose to
continue it. If they were allowed their own way, every comedy would
have a tragic ending, and every tragedy would culminate in a farce.
They are charmingly artificial, but they have no sense of art. You
are more fortunate than I am. I assure you, Dorian, that not one of
the women I have known would have done for me what Sibyl Vane did
for you. Ordinary women always console themselves. Some of them do
it by going in for sentimental colours. Never trust a woman who
wears mauve, whatever her age may be, or a woman over thirty-five
who is fond of pink ribbons. It always means that they have a
history. Others find a great consolation in suddenly discovering
the good qualities of their husbands. They flaunt their conjugal
felicity in one's face, as if it were the most fascinating of sins.
Religion consoles some. Its mysteries have all the charm of a
flirtation, a woman once told me, and I can quite understand it.
Besides, nothing makes one so vain as being told that one is a
sinner. Conscience makes egotists of us all. Yes; there is really
no end to the consolations that women find in modern life. Indeed,
I have not mentioned the most important one."

"What is that, Harry?" said the lad listlessly.

"Oh, the obvious consolation. Taking some one else's admirer
when one loses one's own. In good society that always whitewashes a
woman. But really, Dorian, how different Sibyl Vane must have been
from all the women one meets! There is something to me quite
beautiful about her death. I am glad I am living in a century when
such wonders happen. They make one believe in the reality of the
things we all play with, such as romance, passion, and love."

"I was terribly cruel to her. You forget that."

"I am afraid that women appreciate cruelty, downright cruelty,
more than anything else. They have wonderfully primitive instincts.
We have emancipated them, but they remain slaves looking for their
masters, all the same. They love being dominated. I am sure you
were splendid. I have never seen you really and absolutely angry,
but I can fancy how delightful you looked. And, after all, you said
something to me the day before yesterday that seemed to me at the
time to be merely fanciful, but that I see now was absolutely true,
and it holds the key to everything."

"What was that, Harry?"

"You said to me that Sibyl Vane represented to you all the
heroines of romance—that she was Desdemona one night, and Ophelia
the other; that if she died as Juliet, she came to life as
Imogen."
