"I shall be charmed. But won't you miss your train?" said Dorian
Gray languidly as he passed up the steps and opened the door with
his latch-key.

The lamplight struggled out through the fog, and Hallward looked
at his watch. "I have heaps of time," he answered. "The train
doesn't go till twelve-fifteen, and it is only just eleven. In
fact, I was on my way to the club to look for you, when I met you.
You see, I shan't have any delay about luggage, as I have sent on
my heavy things. All I have with me is in this bag, and I can
easily get to Victoria in twenty minutes."

Dorian looked at him and smiled. "What a way for a fashionable
painter to travel! A Gladstone bag and an ulster! Come in, or the
fog will get into the house. And mind you don't talk about anything
serious. Nothing is serious nowadays. At least nothing should
be."

Hallward shook his head, as he entered, and followed Dorian into
the library. There was a bright wood fire blazing in the large open
hearth. The lamps were lit, and an open Dutch silver spirit-case
stood, with some siphons of soda-water and large cut-glass
tumblers, on a little marqueterie table.

"You see your servant made me quite at home, Dorian. He gave me
everything I wanted, including your best gold-tipped cigarettes. He
is a most hospitable creature. I like him much better than the
Frenchman you used to have. What has become of the Frenchman, by
the bye?"

Dorian shrugged his shoulders. "I believe he married Lady
Radley's maid, and has established her in Paris as an English
dressmaker. Anglomania is very fashionable over there now, I hear.
It seems silly of the French, doesn't it? But—do you know?—he was
not at all a bad servant. I never liked him, but I had nothing to
complain about. One often imagines things that are quite absurd. He
was really very devoted to me and seemed quite sorry when he went
away. Have another brandy-and-soda? Or would you like
hock-and-seltzer? I always take hock-and-seltzer myself. There is
sure to be some in the next room."

"Thanks, I won't have anything more," said the painter, taking
his cap and coat off and throwing them on the bag that he had
placed in the corner. "And now, my dear fellow, I want to speak to
you seriously. Don't frown like that. You make it so much more
difficult for me."

"What is it all about?" cried Dorian in his petulant way,
flinging himself down on the sofa. "I hope it is not about myself.
I am tired of myself to-night. I should like to be somebody
else."

"It is about yourself," answered Hallward in his grave deep
voice, "and I must say it to you. I shall only keep you half an
hour."

Dorian sighed and lit a cigarette. "Half an hour!" he
murmured.

"It is not much to ask of you, Dorian, and it is entirely for
your own sake that I am speaking. I think it right that you should
know that the most dreadful things are being said against you in
London."
