


Chapter

16

&#160;


After dinner all the gang turned out to hunt for turtle eggs on
the bar. They went about poking sticks into the sand, and when they
found a soft place they went down on their knees and dug with their
hands. Sometimes they would take fifty or sixty eggs out of one
hole. They were perfectly round white things a trifle smaller than
an English walnut. They had a famous fried-egg feast that night,
and another on Friday morning.

After breakfast they went whooping and prancing out on the bar,
and chased each other round and round, shedding clothes as they
went, until they were naked, and then continued the frolic far away
up the shoal water of the bar, against the stiff current, which
latter tripped their legs from under them from time to time and
greatly increased the fun. And now and then they stooped in a group
and splashed water in each other's faces with their palms,
gradually approaching each other, with averted faces to avoid the
strangling sprays, and finally gripping and struggling till the
best man ducked his neighbor, and then they all went under in a
tangle of white legs and arms and came up blowing, sputtering,
laughing, and gasping for breath at one and the same time.

When they were well exhausted, they would run out and sprawl on
the dry, hot sand, and lie there and cover themselves up with it,
and by and by break for the water again and go through the original
performance once more. Finally it occurred to them that their naked
skin represented flesh-colored "tights" very fairly; so they drew a
ring in the sand and had a circus — with three clowns in it, for
none would yield this proudest post to his neighbor.

Next they got their marbles and played "knucks" and "ring-taw"
and "keeps" till that amusement grew stale. Then Joe and Huck had
another swim, but Tom would not venture, because he found that in
kicking off his trousers he had kicked his string of rattlesnake
rattles off his ankle, and he wondered how he had escaped cramp so
long without the protection of this mysterious charm. He did not
venture again until he had found it, and by that time the other
boys were tired and ready to rest. They gradually wandered apart,
dropped into the "dumps," and fell to gazing longingly across the
wide river to where the village lay drowsing in the sun. Tom found
himself writing "Becky" in the sand with his big toe; he scratched
it out, and was angry with himself for his weakness. But he wrote
it again, nevertheless; he could not help it. He erased it once
more and then took himself out of temptation by driving the other
boys together and joining them.

But Joe's spirits had gone down almost beyond resurrection. He
was so homesick that he could hardly endure the misery of it. The
tears lay very near the surface. Huck was melancholy, too. Tom was
downhearted, but tried hard not to show it. He had a secret which
he was not ready to tell, yet, but if this mutinous depression was
not broken up soon, he would have to bring it out. He said, with a
great show of cheerfulness:

"I bet there's been pirates on this island before, boys. We'll
explore it again. They've hid treasures here somewhere. How'd you
feel to light on a rotten chest full of gold and silver — hey?"

