"A Vision "Dark and tempestuous was night. Around the throne on
high not a single star quivered; but the deep intonations of the
heavy thunder constantly vibrated upon the ear; whilst the terrific
lightning revelled in angry mood through the cloudy chambers of
heaven, seeming to scorn the power exerted over its terror by the
illustrious Franklin! Even the boisterous winds unanimously came
forth from their mystic homes, and blustered about as if to enhance
by their aid the wildness of the scene.

"At such a time,so dark,so dreary, for human sympathy my very
spirit sighed; but instead thereof,

"'My dearest friend, my counsellor, my comforter and guide — My
joy in grief, my second bliss in joy,' came to my side. She moved
like one of those bright beings pictured in the sunny walks of
fancy's Eden by the romantic and young, a queen of beauty unadorned
save by her own transcendent loveliness. So soft was her step, it
failed to make even a sound, and but for the magical thrill
imparted by her genial touch, as other unobtrusive beauties, she
would have glided away un-perceived — unsought. A strange sadness
rested upon her features, like icy tears upon the robe of December,
as she pointed to the contending elements without, and bade me
contemplate the two beings presented."

This nightmare occupied some ten pages of manuscript and wound
up with a sermon so destructive of all hope to non-Presbyterians
that it took the first prize. This composition was considered to be
the very finest effort of the evening. The mayor of the village, in
delivering the prize to the author of it, made a warm speech in
which he said that it was by far the most "eloquent" thing he had
ever listened to, and that Daniel Webster himself might well be
proud of it. It may be remarked, in passing, that the number of
compositions in which the word "beauteous" was over-fondled, and
human experience referred to as "life's page," was up to the usual
average.

Now the master, mellow almost to the verge of geniality, put his
chair aside, turned his back to the audience, and began to draw a
map of America on the blackboard, to exercise the geography class
upon. But he made a sad business of it with his unsteady hand, and
a smothered titter rippled over the house. He knew what the matter
was, and set himself to right it. He sponged out lines and remade
them; but he only distorted them more than ever, and the tittering
was more pronounced. He threw his entire attention upon his work,
now, as if determined not to be put down by the mirth. He felt that
all eyes were fastened upon him; he imagined he was succeeding, and
yet the tittering continued; it even manifestly increased. And well
it might. There was a garret above, pierced with a scuttle over his
head; and down through this scuttle came a cat, suspended around
the haunches by a string; she had a rag tied about her head and
jaws to keep her from mewing; as she slowly descended she curved
upward and clawed at the string, she swung downward and clawed at
the intangible air. The tittering rose higher and higher — the cat
was within six inches of the absorbed teacher's head — down, down,
a little lower, and she grabbed his wig with her desperate claws,
clung to it, and was snatched up into the garret in an instant with
her trophy still in her possession! And how the light did blaze
abroad from the master's bald pate — for the sign-painter's boy had
gilded it!

That broke up the meeting. The boys were avenged. Vacation had
come.

NOTE:— The pretended "compositions" quoted in this chapter are
taken without alteration from a volume entitled "Prose and Poetry,
by a Western Lady" — but they are exactly and precisely after the
schoolgirl pattern, and hence are much happier than any mere
imitations could be.




