


Chapter

22

&#160;


Tom joined the new order of Cadets of Temperance, being
attracted by the showy character of their "regalia." He promised to
abstain from smoking, chewing, and profanity as long as he remained
a member. Now he found out a new thing — namely, that to promise
not to do a thing is the surest way in the world to make a body
want to go and do that very thing. Tom soon found himself tormented
with a desire to drink and swear; the desire grew to be so intense
that nothing but the hope of a chance to display himself in his red
sash kept him from withdrawing from the order. Fourth of July was
coming; but he soon gave that up — gave it up before he had worn
his shackles over forty-eight hours — and fixed his hopes upon old
Judge Frazer, justice of the peace, who was apparently on his
deathbed and would have a big public funeral, since he was so high
an official. During three days Tom was deeply concerned about the
Judge's condition and hungry for news of it. Sometimes his hopes
ran high — so high that he would venture to get out his regalia and
practise before the looking-glass. But the Judge had a most
discouraging way of fluctuating. At last he was pronounced upon the
mend — and then convalescent. Tom was disgusted; and felt a sense
of injury, too. He handed in his resignation at once — and that
night the Judge suffered a relapse and died. Tom resolved that he
would never trust a man like that again. The funeral was a fine
thing. The Cadets paraded in a style calculated to kill the late
member with envy. Tom was a free boy again, however — there was
something in that. He could drink and swear, now — but found to his
surprise that he did not want to. The simple fact that he could,
took the desire away, and the charm of it.

Tom presently wondered to find that his coveted vacation was
beginning to hang a little heavily on his hands.

He attempted a diary — but nothing happened during three days,
and so he abandoned it.

The first of all the negro minstrel shows came to town, and made
a sensation. Tom and Joe Harper got up a band of performers and
were happy for two days.

Even the Glorious Fourth was in some sense a failure, for it
rained hard, there was no procession in consequence, and the
greatest man in the world (as Tom supposed), Mr. Benton, an actual
United States Senator, proved an overwhelming disappointment — for
he was not twenty-five feet high, nor even anywhere in the
neighborhood of it.

A circus came. The boys played circus for three days afterward
in tents made of rag carpeting — admission, three pins for boys,
two for girls — and then circusing was abandoned.

