
"Take the witness."

Counsel for Potter declined to question him. The faces of the
audience began to betray annoyance. Did this attorney mean to throw
away his client's life without an effort?

Several witnesses deposed concerning Potter's guilty behavior
when brought to the scene of the murder. They were allowed to leave
the stand without being cross-questioned.

Every detail of the damaging circumstances that occurred in the
graveyard upon that morning which all present remembered so well
was brought out by credible witnesses, but none of them were
cross-examined by Potter's lawyer. The perplexity and
dissatisfaction of the house expressed itself in murmurs and
provoked a reproof from the bench. Counsel for the prosecution now
said:

"By the oaths of citizens whose simple word is above suspicion,
we have fastened this awful crime, beyond all possibility of
question, upon the unhappy prisoner at the bar. We rest our case
here."

A groan escaped from poor Potter, and he put his face in his
hands and rocked his body softly to and fro, while a painful
silence reigned in the court-room. Many men were moved, and many
women's compassion testified itself in tears. Counsel for the
defence rose and said:

"Your honor, in our remarks at the opening of this trial, we
foreshadowed our purpose to prove that our client did this fearful
deed while under the influence of a blind and irresponsible
delirium produced by drink. We have changed our mind. We shall not
offer that plea." [Then to the clerk:] "Call Thomas Sawyer!"

A puzzled amazement awoke in every face in the house, not even
excepting Potter's. Every eye fastened itself with wondering
interest upon Tom as he rose and took his place upon the stand. The
boy looked wild enough, for he was badly scared. The oath was
administered.

"Thomas Sawyer, where were you on the seventeenth of June, about
the hour of midnight?"

Tom glanced at Injun Joe's iron face and his tongue failed him.
The audience listened breathless, but the words refused to come.
After a few moments, however, the boy got a little of his strength
back, and managed to put enough of it into his voice to make part
of the house hear:

