
"No — Number Two — under the cross. The other place is bad — too
common."

"All right. It's nearly dark enough to start."

Injun Joe got up and went about from window to window cautiously
peeping out. Presently he said:

"Who could have brought those tools here? Do you reckon they can
be up-stairs?"

The boys' breath forsook them. Injun Joe put his hand on his
knife, halted a moment, undecided, and then turned toward the
stairway. The boys thought of the closet, but their strength was
gone. The steps came creaking up the stairs — the intolerable
distress of the situation woke the stricken resolution of the lads
— they were about to spring for the closet, when there was a crash
of rotten timbers and Injun Joe landed on the ground amid the
debris of the ruined stairway. He gathered himself up cursing, and
his comrade said:

"Now what's the use of all that? If it's anybody, and they're up
there, let them stay there — who cares? If they want to jump down,
now, and get into trouble, who objects? It will be dark in fifteen
minutes — and then let them follow us if they want to. I'm willing.
In my opinion, whoever hove those things in here caught a sight of
us and took us for ghosts or devils or something. I'll bet they're
running yet."

Joe grumbled awhile; then he agreed with his friend that what
daylight was left ought to be economized in getting things ready
for leaving. Shortly afterward they slipped out of the house in the
deepening twilight, and moved toward the river with their precious
box.

Tom and Huck rose up, weak but vastly relieved, and stared after
them through the chinks between the logs of the house. Follow? Not
they. They were content to reach ground again without broken necks,
and take the townward track over the hill. They did not talk much.
They were too much absorbed in hating themselves — hating the ill
luck that made them take the spade and the pick there. But for
that, Injun Joe never would have suspected. He would have hidden
the silver with the gold to wait there till his "revenge" was
satisfied, and then he would have had the misfortune to find that
money turn up missing. Bitter, bitter luck that the tools were ever
brought there!

They resolved to keep a lookout for that Spaniard when he should
come to town spying out for chances to do his revengeful job, and
follow him to "Number Two," wherever that might be. Then a ghastly
thought occurred to Tom.

"Revenge? What if he means us, Huck!"

