


Chapter

27

&#160;


The adventure of the day mightily tormented Tom's dreams that
night. Four times he had his hands on that rich treasure and four
times it wasted to nothingness in his fingers as sleep forsook him
and wakefulness brought back the hard reality of his misfortune. As
he lay in the early morning recalling the incidents of his great
adventure, he noticed that they seemed curiously subdued and far
away — somewhat as if they had happened in another world, or in a
time long gone by. Then it occurred to him that the great adventure
itself must be a dream! There was one very strong argument in favor
of this idea — namely, that the quantity of coin he had seen was
too vast to be real. He had never seen as much as fifty dollars in
one mass before, and he was like all boys of his age and station in
life, in that he imagined that all references to "hundreds" and
"thousands" were mere fanciful forms of speech, and that no such
sums really existed in the world. He never had supposed for a
moment that so large a sum as a hundred dollars was to be found in
actual money in any one's possession. If his notions of hidden
treasure had been analyzed, they would have been found to consist
of a handful of real dimes and a bushel of vague, splendid,
ungraspable dollars.

But the incidents of his adventure grew sensibly sharper and
clearer under the attrition of thinking them over, and so he
presently found himself leaning to the impression that the thing
might not have been a dream, after all. This uncertainty must be
swept away. He would snatch a hurried breakfast and go and find
Huck. Huck was sitting on the gunwale of a flatboat, listlessly
dangling his feet in the water and looking very melancholy. Tom
concluded to let Huck lead up to the subject. If he did not do it,
then the adventure would be proved to have been only a dream.

"Hello, Huck!"

"Hello, yourself."

Silence, for a minute.

"Tom, if we'd 'a' left the blame tools at the dead tree, we'd
'a' got the money. Oh, ain't it awful!"

