"When would they miss us, Tom?"

"When they get back to the boat, I reckon."

"Tom, it might be dark then — would they notice we hadn't
come?"

"I don't know. But anyway, your mother would miss you as soon as
they got home."

A frightened look in Becky's face brought Tom to his senses and
he saw that he had made a blunder. Becky was not to have gone home
that night! The children became silent and thoughtful. In a moment
a new burst of grief from Becky showed Tom that the thing in his
mind had struck hers also — that the Sabbath morning might be half
spent before Mrs. Thatcher discovered that Becky was not at Mrs.
Harper's.

The children fastened their eyes upon their bit of candle and
watched it melt slowly and pitilessly away; saw the half inch of
wick stand alone at last; saw the feeble flame rise and fall, climb
the thin column of smoke, linger at its top a moment, and then —
the horror of utter darkness reigned!

How long afterward it was that Becky came to a slow
consciousness that she was crying in Tom's arms, neither could
tell. All that they knew was, that after what seemed a mighty
stretch of time, both awoke out of a dead stupor of sleep and
resumed their miseries once more. Tom said it might be Sunday, now
— maybe Monday. He tried to get Becky to talk, but her sorrows were
too oppressive, all her hopes were gone. Tom said that they must
have been missed long ago, and no doubt the search was going on. He
would shout and maybe some one would come. He tried it; but in the
darkness the distant echoes sounded so hideously that he tried it
no more.

The hours wasted away, and hunger came to torment the captives
again. A portion of Tom's half of the cake was left; they divided
and ate it. But they seemed hungrier than before. The poor morsel
of food only whetted desire.

By-and-by Tom said:

"Sh! Did you hear that?"

Both held their breath and listened. There was a sound like the
faintest, far-off shout. Instantly Tom answered it, and leading
Becky by the hand, started groping down the corridor in its
direction. Presently he listened again; again the sound was heard,
and apparently a little nearer.
