"Yes."

"What'll you take for her?"

"What'll you give?"

"Piece of lickrish and a fish-hook."

"Less see 'em."

Tom exhibited. They were satisfactory, and the property changed
hands. Then Tom traded a couple of white alleys for three red
tickets, and some small trifle or other for a couple of blue ones.
He waylaid other boys as they came, and went on buying tickets of
various colors ten or fifteen minutes longer. He entered the
church, now, with a swarm of clean and noisy boys and girls,
proceeded to his seat and started a quarrel with the first boy that
came handy. The teacher, a grave, elderly man, interfered; then
turned his back a moment and Tom pulled a boy's hair in the next
bench, and was absorbed in his book when the boy turned around;
stuck a pin in another boy, presently, in order to hear him say
"Ouch!" and got a new reprimand from his teacher. Tom's whole class
were of a pattern — restless, noisy, and troublesome. When they
came to recite their lessons, not one of them knew his verses
perfectly, but had to be prompted all along. However, they worried
through, and each got his reward — in small blue tickets, each with
a passage of Scripture on it; each blue ticket was pay for two
verses of the recitation. Ten blue tickets equalled a red one, and
could be exchanged for it; ten red tickets equalled a yellow one;
for ten yellow tickets the superintendent gave a very plainly bound
Bible (worth forty cents in those easy times) to the pupil. How
many of my readers would have the industry and application to
memorize two thousand verses, even for a Dore Bible? And yet Mary
had acquired two Bibles in this way — it was the patient work of
two years — and a boy of German parentage had won four or five. He
once recited three thousand verses without stopping; but the strain
upon his mental faculties was too great, and he was little better
than an idiot from that day forth — a grievous misfortune for the
school, for on great occasions, before company, the superintendent
(as Tom expressed it) had always made this boy come out and "spread
himself." Only the older pupils managed to keep their tickets and
stick to their tedious work long enough to get a Bible, and so the
delivery of one of these prizes was a rare and noteworthy
circumstance; the successful pupil was so great and conspicuous for
that day that on the spot every scholar's heart was fired with a
fresh ambition that often lasted a couple of weeks. It is possible
that Tom's mental stomach had never really hungered for one of
those prizes, but unquestionably his entire being had for many a
day longed for the glory and the eclat that came with it.

In due course the superintendent stood up in front of the
pulpit, with a closed hymn-book in his hand and his forefinger
inserted between its leaves, and commanded attention. When a
Sunday-school superintendent makes his customary little speech, a
hymn-book in the hand is as necessary as is the inevitable sheet of
music in the hand of a singer who stands forward on the platform
and sings a solo at a concert — though why, is a mystery: for
neither the hymn-book nor the sheet of music is ever referred to by
the sufferer. This superintendent was a slim creature of
thirty-five, with a sandy goatee and short sandy hair; he wore a
stiff standing-collar whose upper edge almost reached his ears and
whose sharp points curved forward abreast the corners of his mouth
— a fence that compelled a straight lookout ahead, and a turning of
the whole body when a side view was required; his chin was propped
on a spreading cravat which was as broad and as long as a
bank-note, and had fringed ends; his boot toes were turned sharply
up, in the fashion of the day, like sleigh-runners — an effect
patiently and laboriously produced by the young men by sitting with
their toes pressed against a wall for hours together. Mr. Walters
was very earnest of mien, and very sincere and honest at heart; and
he held sacred things and places in such reverence, and so
separated them from worldly matters, that unconsciously to himself
his Sunday-school voice had acquired a peculiar intonation which
was wholly absent on week-days. He began after this fashion:

"Now, children, I want you all to sit up just as straight and
pretty as you can and give me all your attention for a minute or
two. There — that is it. That is the way good little boys and girls
should do. I see one little girl who is looking out of the window —
I am afraid she thinks I am out there somewhere — perhaps up in one
of the trees making a speech to the little birds. [Applausive
titter.] I want to tell you how good it makes me feel to see so
many bright, clean little faces assembled in a place like this,
learning to do right and be good." And so forth and so on. It is
not necessary to set down the rest of the oration. It was of a
pattern which does not vary, and so it is familiar to us all.

The latter third of the speech was marred by the resumption of
fights and other recreations among certain of the bad boys, and by
fidgetings and whisperings that extended far and wide, washing even
to the bases of isolated and incorruptible rocks like Sid and Mary.
But now every sound ceased suddenly, with the subsidence of Mr.
Walters' voice, and the conclusion of the speech was received with
a burst of silent gratitude.

A good part of the whispering had been occasioned by an event
which was more or less rare — the entrance of visitors: lawyer
Thatcher, accompanied by a very feeble and aged man; a fine,
portly, middle-aged gentleman with iron-gray hair; and a dignified
lady who was doubtless the latter's wife. The lady was leading a
child. Tom had been restless and full of chafings and repinings;
conscience-smitten, too — he could not meet Amy Lawrence's eye, he
could not brook her loving gaze. But when he saw this small
new-comer his soul was all ablaze with bliss in a moment. The next
moment he was "showing off" with all his might — cuffing boys,
pulling hair, making faces — in a word, using every art that seemed
likely to fascinate a girl and win her applause. His exaltation had
but one alloy — the memory of his humiliation in this angel's
garden — and that record in sand was fast washing out, under the
waves of happiness that were sweeping over it now.

The visitors were given the highest seat of honor, and as soon
as Mr. Walters' speech was finished, he introduced them to the
school. The middle-aged man turned out to be a prodigious personage
— no less a one than the county judge — altogether the most august
creation these children had ever looked upon — and they wondered
what kind of material he was made of — and they half wanted to hear
him roar, and were half afraid he might, too. He was from
Constantinople, twelve miles away — so he had travelled, and seen
the world — these very eyes had looked upon the county court-house
— which was said to have a tin roof. The awe which these
reflections inspired was attested by the impressive silence and the
ranks of staring eyes. This was the great Judge Thatcher, brother
of their own lawyer. Jeff Thatcher immediately went forward, to be
familiar with the great man and be envied by the school. It would
have been music to his soul to hear the whisperings:
