
"Oh, please, auntie, don't pull it out. It don't hurt any more.
I wish I may never stir if it does. Please don't, auntie. I don't
want to stay home from school."

"Oh, you don't, don't you? So all this row was because you
thought you'd get to stay home from school and go a-fishing? Tom,
Tom, I love you so, and you seem to try every way you can to break
my old heart with your outrageousness." By this time the dental
instruments were ready. The old lady made one end of the silk
thread fast to Tom's tooth with a loop and tied the other to the
bedpost. Then she seized the chunk of fire and suddenly thrust it
almost into the boy's face. The tooth hung dangling by the bedpost,
now.

But all trials bring their compensations. As Tom wended to
school after breakfast, he was the envy of every boy he met because
the gap in his upper row of teeth enabled him to expectorate in a
new and admirable way. He gathered quite a following of lads
interested in the exhibition; and one that had cut his finger and
had been a centre of fascination and homage up to this time, now
found himself suddenly without an adherent, and shorn of his glory.
His heart was heavy, and he said with a disdain which he did not
feel that it wasn't anything to spit like Tom Sawyer; but another
boy said, "Sour grapes!" and he wandered away a dismantled
hero.

Shortly Tom came upon the juvenile pariah of the village,
Huckleberry Finn, son of the town drunkard. Huckleberry was
cordially hated and dreaded by all the mothers of the town, because
he was idle and lawless and vulgar and bad — and because all their
children admired him so, and delighted in his forbidden society,
and wished they dared to be like him. Tom was like the rest of the
respectable boys, in that he envied Huckleberry his gaudy outcast
condition, and was under strict orders not to play with him. So he
played with him every time he got a chance. Huckleberry was always
dressed in the cast-off clothes of full-grown men, and they were in
perennial bloom and fluttering with rags. His hat was a vast ruin
with a wide crescent lopped out of its brim; his coat, when he wore
one, hung nearly to his heels and had the rearward buttons far down
the back; but one suspender supported his trousers; the seat of the
trousers bagged low and contained nothing, the fringed legs dragged
in the dirt when not rolled up.

Huckleberry came and went, at his own free will. He slept on
doorsteps in fine weather and in empty hogsheads in wet; he did not
have to go to school or to church, or call any being master or obey
anybody; he could go fishing or swimming when and where he chose,
and stay as long as it suited him; nobody forbade him to fight; he
could sit up as late as he pleased; he was always the first boy
that went barefoot in the spring and the last to resume leather in
the fall; he never had to wash, nor put on clean clothes; he could
swear wonderfully. In a word, everything that goes to make life
precious that boy had. So thought every harassed, hampered,
respectable boy in St. Petersburg.

Tom hailed the romantic outcast:

"Hello, Huckleberry!"

"Hello yourself, and see how you like it."

"What's that you got?"

"Dead cat."

