
"Stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn."

There was no mistaking the words.

"Thomas Sawyer, this is the most astounding confession I have
ever listened to. No mere ferule will answer for this offence. Take
off your jacket."

The master's arm performed until it was tired and the stock of
switches notably diminished. Then the order followed:

"Now, sir, go and sit with the girls! And let this be a warning
to you."

The titter that rippled around the room appeared to abash the
boy, but in reality that result was caused rather more by his
worshipful awe of his unknown idol and the dread pleasure that lay
in his high good fortune. He sat down upon the end of the pine
bench and the girl hitched herself away from him with a toss of her
head. Nudges and winks and whispers traversed the room, but Tom sat
still, with his arms upon the long, low desk before him, and seemed
to study his book.

By and by attention ceased from him, and the accustomed school
murmur rose upon the dull air once more. Presently the boy began to
steal furtive glances at the girl. She observed it, "made a mouth"
at him and gave him the back of her head for the space of a minute.
When she cautiously faced around again, a peach lay before her. She
thrust it away. Tom gently put it back. She thrust it away again,
but with less animosity. Tom patiently returned it to its place.
Then she let it remain. Tom scrawled on his slate, "Please take it
— I got more." The girl glanced at the words, but made no sign. Now
the boy began to draw something on the slate, hiding his work with
his left hand. For a time the girl refused to notice; but her human
curiosity presently began to manifest itself by hardly perceptible
signs. The boy worked on, apparently unconscious. The girl made a
sort of noncommittal attempt to see, but the boy did not betray
that he was aware of it. At last she gave in and hesitatingly
whispered:

"Let me see it."

Tom partly uncovered a dismal caricature of a house with two
gable ends to it and a corkscrew of smoke issuing from the chimney.
Then the girl's interest began to fasten itself upon the work and
she forgot everything else. When it was finished, she gazed a
moment, then whispered:

"It's nice — make a man."

