


Chapter

11

&#160;


Close upon the hour of noon the whole village was suddenly
electrified with the ghastly news. No need of the as yet
undreamed-of telegraph; the tale flew from man to man, from group
to group, from house to house, with little less than telegraphic
speed. Of course the schoolmaster gave holiday for that afternoon;
the town would have thought strangely of him if he had not.

A gory knife had been found close to the murdered man, and it
had been recognized by somebody as belonging to Muff Potter — so
the story ran. And it was said that a belated citizen had come upon
Potter washing himself in the "branch" about one or two o'clock in
the morning, and that Potter had at once sneaked off — suspicious
circumstances, especially the washing which was not a habit with
Potter. It was also said that the town had been ransacked for this
"murderer" (the public are not slow in the matter of sifting
evidence and arriving at a verdict), but that he could not be
found. Horsemen had departed down all the roads in every direction,
and the Sheriff "was confident" that he would be captured before
night.

All the town was drifting toward the graveyard. Tom's heartbreak
vanished and he joined the procession, not because he would not a
thousand times rather go anywhere else, but because an awful,
unaccountable fascination drew him on. Arrived at the dreadful
place, he wormed his small body through the crowd and saw the
dismal spectacle. It seemed to him an age since he was there
before. Somebody pinched his arm. He turned, and his eyes met
Huckleberry's. Then both looked elsewhere at once, and wondered if
anybody had noticed anything in their mutual glance. But everybody
was talking, and intent upon the grisly spectacle before them.

"Poor fellow!" "Poor young fellow!" "This ought to be a lesson
to grave robbers!" "Muff Potter'll hang for this if they catch
him!" This was the drift of remark; and the minister said, "It was
a judgment; His hand is here."

Now Tom shivered from head to heel; for his eye fell upon the
stolid face of Injun Joe. At this moment the crowd began to sway
and struggle, and voices shouted, "It's him! it's him! he's coming
himself!"

"Who? Who?" from twenty voices.

