
"Something told me 't if I didn't come back and get —" He
shuddered; then waved his nerveless hand with a vanquished gesture
and said, "Tell 'em, Joe, tell 'em — it ain't any use any
more."

Then Huckleberry and Tom stood dumb and staring, and heard the
stony-hearted liar reel off his serene statement, they expecting
every moment that the clear sky would deliver God's lightnings upon
his head, and wondering to see how long the stroke was delayed. And
when he had finished and still stood alive and whole, their
wavering impulse to break their oath and save the poor betrayed
prisoner's life faded and vanished away, for plainly this miscreant
had sold himself to Satan and it would be fatal to meddle with the
property of such a power as that.

"Why didn't you leave? What did you want to come here for?"
somebody said.

"I couldn't help it — I couldn't help it," Potter moaned. "I
wanted to run away, but I couldn't seem to come anywhere but here."
And he fell to sobbing again.

Injun Joe repeated his statement, just as calmly, a few minutes
afterward on the inquest, under oath; and the boys, seeing that the
lightnings were still withheld, were confirmed in their belief that
Joe had sold himself to the devil. He was now become, to them, the
most balefully interesting object they had ever looked upon, and
they could not take their fascinated eyes from his face.

They inwardly resolved to watch him nights, when opportunity
should offer, in the hope of getting a glimpse of his dread
master.

Injun Joe helped to raise the body of the murdered man and put
it in a wagon for removal; and it was whispered through the
shuddering crowd that the wound bled a little! The boys thought
that this happy circumstance would turn suspicion in the right
direction; but they were disappointed, for more than one villager
remarked:

"It was within three feet of Muff Potter when it done it."

Tom's fearful secret and gnawing conscience disturbed his sleep
for as much as a week after this; and at breakfast one morning Sid
said:

"Tom, you pitch around and talk in your sleep so much that you
keep me awake half the time."

