"Shake out that maintogalans'l! Sheets and braces! Now my
hearties!"

"Aye-aye, sir!"

"Hellum-a-lee — hard a port! Stand by to meet her when she
comes! Port, port! Now, men! With a will! Stead-y-y-y!"

"Steady it is, sir!"

The raft drew beyond the middle of the river; the boys pointed
her head right, and then lay on their oars. The river was not high,
so there was not more than a two or three mile current. Hardly a
word was said during the next three-quarters of an hour. Now the
raft was passing before the distant town. Two or three glimmering
lights showed where it lay, peacefully sleeping, beyond the vague
vast sweep of star-gemmed water, unconscious of the tremendous
event that was happening. The Black Avenger stood still with folded
arms, "looking his last" upon the scene of his former joys and his
later sufferings, and wishing "she" could see him now, abroad on
the wild sea, facing peril and death with dauntless heart, going to
his doom with a grim smile on his lips. It was but a small strain
on his imagination to remove Jackson's Island beyond eyeshot of the
village, and so he "looked his last" with a broken and satisfied
heart. The other pirates were looking their last, too; and they all
looked so long that they came near letting the current drift them
out of the range of the island. But they discovered the danger in
time, and made shift to avert it. About two o'clock in the morning
the raft grounded on the bar two hundred yards above the head of
the island, and they waded back and forth until they had landed
their freight. Part of the little raft's belongings consisted of an
old sail, and this they spread over a nook in the bushes for a tent
to shelter their provisions; but they themselves would sleep in the
open air in good weather, as became outlaws.

They built a fire against the side of a great log twenty or
thirty steps within the sombre depths of the forest, and then
cooked some bacon in the frying-pan for supper, and used up half of
the corn "pone" stock they had brought. It seemed glorious sport to
be feasting in that wild, free way in the virgin forest of an
unexplored and uninhabited island, far from the haunts of men, and
they said they never would return to civilization. The climbing
fire lit up their faces and threw its ruddy glare upon the pillared
tree-trunks of their forest temple, and upon the varnished foliage
and festooning vines.

When the last crisp slice of bacon was gone, and the last
allowance of corn pone devoured, the boys stretched themselves out
on the grass, filled with contentment. They could have found a
cooler place, but they would not deny themselves such a romantic
feature as the roasting camp-fire.

"Ain't it gay?" said Joe.

"It's nuts!" said Tom. "What would the boys say if they could
see us?"

"Say? Well, they'd just die to be here — hey, Hucky!"

"I reckon so," said Huckleberry; "anyways, I'm suited. I don't
want nothing better'n this. I don't ever get enough to eat,
gen'ally — and here they can't come and pick at a feller and
bullyrag him so."
