


Preface


&#160;

Whether a translation of Homer may be best executed in blank
verse or in rhyme, is a question in the decision of which no man
can find difficulty, who has ever duly considered what translation
ought to be, or who is in any degree practically acquainted with
those very different kinds of versification. I will venture to
assert that a just translation of any ancient poet in rhyme, is
impossible. No human ingenuity can be equal to the task of closing
every couplet with sounds homotonous, expressing at the same time
the full sense, and only the full sense of his original. The
translator's ingenuity, indeed, in this case becomes itself a
snare, and the readier he is at invention and expedient, the more
likely he is to be betrayed into the widest departures from the
guide whom he professes to follow. Hence it has happened, that
although the public have long been in possession of an English
Homer by a poet whose writings have done immortal honor to his
country, the demand of a new one, and especially in blank verse,
has been repeatedly and loudly made by some of the best judges and
ablest writers of the present day.

I have no contest with my predecessor. None is supposable
between performers on different instruments. Mr. Pope has
surmounted all difficulties in his version of Homer that it was
possible to surmount in rhyme. But he was fettered, and his fetters
were his choice. Accustomed always to rhyme, he had formed to
himself an ear which probably could not be much gratified by verse
that wanted it, and determined to encounter even impossibilities,
rather than abandon a mode of writing in which he had excelled
every body, for the sake of another to which, unexercised in it as
he was, he must have felt strong objections.

I number myself among the warmest admirers of Mr. Pope as an
original writer, and I allow him all the merit he can justly claim
as the translator of this chief of poets. He has given us the
Tale of Troy divine
in smooth verse, generally in correct
and elegant language, and in diction often highly poetical. But his
deviations are so many, occasioned chiefly by the cause already
mentioned, that, much as he has done, and valuable as his work is
on some accounts, it was yet in the humble province of a translator
that I thought it possible even for me to fellow him with some
advantage.

That he has sometimes altogether suppressed the sense of his
author, and has not seldom intermingled his own ideas with it, is a
remark which, on viii
this occasion, nothing
but necessity should have extorted from me. But we differ sometimes
so widely in our matter, that unless this remark, invidious as it
seems, be premised, I know not how to obviate a suspicion, on the
one hand, of careless oversight, or of factitious embellishment on
the other. On this head, therefore, the English reader is to be
admonished, that the matter found in me, whether he like it or not,
is found also in Homer, and that the matter not found in me, how
much soever he may admire it, is found only in Mr. Pope. I have
omitted nothing; I have invented nothing.

There is indisputably a wide difference between the case of an
original writer in rhyme and a translator. In an original work the
author is free; if the rhyme be of difficult attainment, and he
cannot find it in one direction, he is at liberty to seek it in
another; the matter that will not accommodate itself to his
occasions he may discard, adopting such as will. But in a
translation no such option is allowable; the sense of the author is
required, and we do not surrender it willingly even to the plea of
necessity. Fidelity is indeed of the very essence of translation,
and the term itself implies it. For which reason, if we suppress
the sense of our original, and force into its place our own, we may
call our work an
imitation
, if we please, or perhaps a
