
"Thank you. You are very kind. Yes, next week. Every body is so
surprized; and every body says the same obliging things. I am sure
she will be as happy to see her friends at Highbury, as they can be
to see her. Yes, Friday or Saturday; she cannot say which, because
Colonel Campbell will be wanting the carriage himself one of those
days. So very good of them to send her the whole way! But they
always do, you know. Oh yes, Friday or Saturday next. That is what
she writes about. That is the reason of her writing out of rule, as
we call it; for, in the common course, we should not have heard
from her before next Tuesday or Wednesday."

"Yes, so I imagined. I was afraid there could be little chance
of my hearing any thing of Miss Fairfax to-day."

"So obliging of you! No, we should not have heard, if it had not
been for this particular circumstance, of her being to come here so
soon. My mother is so delighted!—for she is to be three months with
us at least. Three months, she says so, positively, as I am going
to have the pleasure of reading to you. The case is, you see, that
the Campbells are going to Ireland. Mrs. Dixon has persuaded her
father and mother to come over and see her directly. They had not
intended to go over till the summer, but she is so impatient to see
them again—for till she married, last October, she was never away
from them so much as a week, which must make it very strange to be
in different kingdoms, I was going to say, but however different
countries, and so she wrote a very urgent letter to her mother—or
her father, I declare I do not know which it was, but we shall see
presently in Jane's letter—wrote in Mr. Dixon's name as well as her
own, to press their coming over directly, and they would give them
the meeting in Dublin, and take them back to their country seat,
Baly-craig, a beautiful place, I fancy. Jane has heard a great deal
of its beauty; from Mr. Dixon, I mean— I do not know that she ever
heard about it from any body else; but it was very natural, you
know, that he should like to speak of his own place while he was
paying his addresses—and as Jane used to be very often walking out
with them—for Colonel and Mrs. Campbell were very particular about
their daughter's not walking out often with only Mr. Dixon, for
which I do not at all blame them; of course she heard every thing
he might be telling Miss Campbell about his own home in Ireland;
and I think she wrote us word that he had shewn them some drawings
of the place, views that he had taken himself. He is a most
amiable, charming young man, I believe. Jane was quite longing to
go to Ireland, from his account of things."

At this moment, an ingenious and animating suspicion entering
Emma's brain with regard to Jane Fairfax, this charming Mr. Dixon,
and the not going to Ireland, she said, with the insidious design
of farther discovery,

"You must feel it very fortunate that Miss Fairfax should be
allowed to come to you at such a time. Considering the very
particular friendship between her and Mrs. Dixon, you could hardly
have expected her to be excused from accompanying Colonel and Mrs.
Campbell."

"Very true, very true, indeed. The very thing that we have
always been rather afraid of; for we should not have liked to have
her at such a distance from us, for months together—not able to
come if any thing was to happen. But you see, every thing turns out
for the best. They want her (Mr. and Mrs. Dixon) excessively to
come over with Colonel and Mrs. Campbell; quite depend upon it;
nothing can be more kind or pressing than their joint invitation,
Jane says, as you will hear presently; Mr. Dixon does not seem in
the least backward in any attention. He is a most charming young
man. Ever since the service he rendered Jane at Weymouth, when they
were out in that party on the water, and she, by the sudden
whirling round of something or other among the sails, would have
been dashed into the sea at once, and actually was all but gone, if
he had not, with the greatest presence of mind, caught hold of her
habit— (I can never think of it without trembling!)—But ever since
we had the history of that day, I have been so fond of Mr.
Dixon!"

"But, in spite of all her friends' urgency, and her own wish of
seeing Ireland, Miss Fairfax prefers devoting the time to you and
Mrs. Bates?"

"Yes—entirely her own doing, entirely her own choice; and
Colonel and Mrs. Campbell think she does quite right, just what
they should recommend; and indeed they particularly wish her to try
her native air, as she has not been quite so well as usual
lately."

"I am concerned to hear of it. I think they judge wisely. But
Mrs. Dixon must be very much disappointed. Mrs. Dixon, I
understand, has no remarkable degree of personal beauty; is not, by
any means, to be compared with Miss Fairfax."

"Oh! no. You are very obliging to say such things—but certainly
not. There is no comparison between them. Miss Campbell always was
absolutely plain—but extremely elegant and amiable."

