"I always told you she was—a little; but you will soon overcome
all that part of her reserve which ought to be overcome, all that
has its foundation in diffidence. What arises from discretion must
be honoured."

"You think her diffident. I do not see it."

"My dear Emma," said he, moving from his chair into one close by
her, "you are not going to tell me, I hope, that you had not a
pleasant evening."

"Oh! no; I was pleased with my own perseverance in asking
questions; and amused to think how little information I
obtained."

"I am disappointed," was his only answer.

"I hope every body had a pleasant evening," said Mr. Woodhouse,
in his quiet way. "I had. Once, I felt the fire rather too much;
but then I moved back my chair a little, a very little, and it did
not disturb me. Miss Bates was very chatty and good-humoured, as
she always is, though she speaks rather too quick. However, she is
very agreeable, and Mrs. Bates too, in a different way. I like old
friends; and Miss Jane Fairfax is a very pretty sort of young lady,
a very pretty and a very well-behaved young lady indeed. She must
have found the evening agreeable, Mr. Knightley, because she had
Emma."

"True, sir; and Emma, because she had Miss Fairfax."

Emma saw his anxiety, and wishing to appease it, at least for
the present, said, and with a sincerity which no one could
question—

"She is a sort of elegant creature that one cannot keep one's
eyes from. I am always watching her to admire; and I do pity her
from my heart."

Mr. Knightley looked as if he were more gratified than he cared
to express; and before he could make any reply, Mr. Woodhouse,
whose thoughts were on the Bates's, said—

"It is a great pity that their circumstances should be so
confined! a great pity indeed! and I have often wished—but it is so
little one can venture to do—small, trifling presents, of any thing
uncommon— Now we have killed a porker, and Emma thinks of sending
them a loin or a leg; it is very small and delicate—Hartfield pork
is not like any other pork—but still it is pork—and, my dear Emma,
unless one could be sure of their making it into steaks, nicely
fried, as ours are fried, without the smallest grease, and not
roast it, for no stomach can bear roast pork—I think we had better
send the leg— do not you think so, my dear?"
