


Chapter

4

&#160;


Human nature is so well disposed towards those who are in
interesting situations, that a young person, who either marries or
dies, is sure of being kindly spoken of.

A week had not passed since Miss Hawkins's name was first
mentioned in Highbury, before she was, by some means or other,
discovered to have every recommendation of person and mind; to be
handsome, elegant, highly accomplished, and perfectly amiable: and
when Mr. Elton himself arrived to triumph in his happy prospects,
and circulate the fame of her merits, there was very little more
for him to do, than to tell her Christian name, and say whose music
she principally played.

Mr. Elton returned, a very happy man. He had gone away rejected
and mortified—disappointed in a very sanguine hope, after a series
of what appeared to him strong encouragement; and not only losing
the right lady, but finding himself debased to the level of a very
wrong one. He had gone away deeply offended—he came back engaged to
another—and to another as superior, of course, to the first, as
under such circumstances what is gained always is to what is lost.
He came back gay and self-satisfied, eager and busy, caring nothing
for Miss Woodhouse, and defying Miss Smith.

The charming Augusta Hawkins, in addition to all the usual
advantages of perfect beauty and merit, was in possession of an
independent fortune, of so many thousands as would always be called
ten; a point of some dignity, as well as some convenience: the
story told well; he had not thrown himself away—he had gained a
woman of 10,000 l. or thereabouts; and he had gained her with such
delightful rapidity— the first hour of introduction had been so
very soon followed by distinguishing notice; the history which he
had to give Mrs. Cole of the rise and progress of the affair was so
glorious—the steps so quick, from the accidental rencontre, to the
dinner at Mr. Green's, and the party at Mrs. Brown's—smiles and
blushes rising in importance— with consciousness and agitation
richly scattered—the lady had been so easily impressed—so sweetly
disposed—had in short, to use a most intelligible phrase, been so
very ready to have him, that vanity and prudence were equally
contented.

He had caught both substance and shadow—both fortune and
affection, and was just the happy man he ought to be; talking only
of himself and his own concerns—expecting to be congratulated—ready
to be laughed at—and, with cordial, fearless smiles, now addressing
all the young ladies of the place, to whom, a few weeks ago, he
would have been more cautiously gallant.

The wedding was no distant event, as the parties had only
themselves to please, and nothing but the necessary preparations to
wait for; and when he set out for Bath again, there was a general
expectation, which a certain glance of Mrs. Cole's did not seem to
contradict, that when he next entered Highbury he would bring his
bride.

