"How d'ye do?—how d'ye do?—We have been sitting with your
father— glad to see him so well. Frank comes to-morrow—I had a
letter this morning—we see him to-morrow by dinner-time to a
certainty— he is at Oxford to-day, and he comes for a whole
fortnight; I knew it would be so. If he had come at Christmas he
could not have staid three days; I was always glad he did not come
at Christmas; now we are going to have just the right weather for
him, fine, dry, settled weather. We shall enjoy him completely;
every thing has turned out exactly as we could wish."

There was no resisting such news, no possibility of avoiding the
influence of such a happy face as Mr. Weston's, confirmed as it all
was by the words and the countenance of his wife, fewer and
quieter, but not less to the purpose. To know that she thought his
coming certain was enough to make Emma consider it so, and
sincerely did she rejoice in their joy. It was a most delightful
reanimation of exhausted spirits. The worn-out past was sunk in the
freshness of what was coming; and in the rapidity of half a
moment's thought, she hoped Mr. Elton would now be talked of no
more.

Mr. Weston gave her the history of the engagements at Enscombe,
which allowed his son to answer for having an entire fortnight at
his command, as well as the route and the method of his journey;
and she listened, and smiled, and congratulated.

"I shall soon bring him over to Hartfield," said he, at the
conclusion.

Emma could imagine she saw a touch of the arm at this speech,
from his wife.

"We had better move on, Mr. Weston," said she, "we are detaining
the girls."

"Well, well, I am ready;"—and turning again to Emma, "but you
must not be expecting such a very fine young man; you have only had
my account you know; I dare say he is really nothing
extraordinary:"— though his own sparkling eyes at the moment were
speaking a very different conviction.

Emma could look perfectly unconscious and innocent, and answer
in a manner that appropriated nothing.

"Think of me to-morrow, my dear Emma, about four o'clock," was
Mrs. Weston's parting injunction; spoken with some anxiety, and
meant only for her.

"Four o'clock!—depend upon it he will be here by three," was Mr.
Weston's quick amendment; and so ended a most satisfactory meeting.
Emma's spirits were mounted quite up to happiness; every thing wore
a different air; James and his horses seemed not half so sluggish
as before. When she looked at the hedges, she thought the elder at
least must soon be coming out; and when she turned round to
Harriet, she saw something like a look of spring, a tender smile
even there.

"Will Mr. Frank Churchill pass through Bath as well as Oxford?"—
was a question, however, which did not augur much.
