
"There is no necessity for my calling this morning," said the
young man; "another day would do as well; but there was that degree
of acquaintance at Weymouth which—"

"Oh! go to-day, go to-day. Do not defer it. What is right to be
done cannot be done too soon. And, besides, I must give you a hint,
Frank; any want of attention to her here should be carefully
avoided. You saw her with the Campbells, when she was the equal of
every body she mixed with, but here she is with a poor old
grandmother, who has barely enough to live on. If you do not call
early it will be a slight."

The son looked convinced.

"I have heard her speak of the acquaintance," said Emma; "she is
a very elegant young woman."

He agreed to it, but with so quiet a "Yes," as inclined her
almost to doubt his real concurrence; and yet there must be a very
distinct sort of elegance for the fashionable world, if Jane
Fairfax could be thought only ordinarily gifted with it.

"If you were never particularly struck by her manners before,"
said she, "I think you will to-day. You will see her to advantage;
see her and hear her—no, I am afraid you will not hear her at all,
for she has an aunt who never holds her tongue."

"You are acquainted with Miss Jane Fairfax, sir, are you?" said
Mr. Woodhouse, always the last to make his way in conversation;
"then give me leave to assure you that you will find her a very
agreeable young lady. She is staying here on a visit to her
grandmama and aunt, very worthy people; I have known them all my
life. They will be extremely glad to see you, I am sure; and one of
my servants shall go with you to shew you the way."

"My dear sir, upon no account in the world; my father can direct
me."

"But your father is not going so far; he is only going to the
Crown, quite on the other side of the street, and there are a great
many houses; you might be very much at a loss, and it is a very
dirty walk, unless you keep on the footpath; but my coachman can
tell you where you had best cross the street."

Mr. Frank Churchill still declined it, looking as serious as he
could, and his father gave his hearty support by calling out, "My
good friend, this is quite unnecessary; Frank knows a puddle of
water when he sees it, and as to Mrs. Bates's, he may get there
from the Crown in a hop, step, and jump."

