


Chapter

7

&#160;


Emma's very good opinion of Frank Churchill was a little shaken
the following day, by hearing that he was gone off to London,
merely to have his hair cut. A sudden freak seemed to have seized
him at breakfast, and he had sent for a chaise and set off,
intending to return to dinner, but with no more important view that
appeared than having his hair cut. There was certainly no harm in
his travelling sixteen miles twice over on such an errand; but
there was an air of foppery and nonsense in it which she could not
approve. It did not accord with the rationality of plan, the
moderation in expense, or even the unselfish warmth of heart, which
she had believed herself to discern in him yesterday. Vanity,
extravagance, love of change, restlessness of temper, which must be
doing something, good or bad; heedlessness as to the pleasure of
his father and Mrs. Weston, indifferent as to how his conduct might
appear in general; he became liable to all these charges. His
father only called him a coxcomb, and thought it a very good story;
but that Mrs. Weston did not like it, was clear enough, by her
passing it over as quickly as possible, and making no other comment
than that "all young people would have their little whims."

With the exception of this little blot, Emma found that his
visit hitherto had given her friend only good ideas of him. Mrs.
Weston was very ready to say how attentive and pleasant a companion
he made himself—how much she saw to like in his disposition
altogether. He appeared to have a very open temper—certainly a very
cheerful and lively one; she could observe nothing wrong in his
notions, a great deal decidedly right; he spoke of his uncle with
warm regard, was fond of talking of him—said he would be the best
man in the world if he were left to himself; and though there was
no being attached to the aunt, he acknowledged her kindness with
gratitude, and seemed to mean always to speak of her with respect.
This was all very promising; and, but for such an unfortunate fancy
for having his hair cut, there was nothing to denote him unworthy
of the distinguished honour which her imagination had given him;
the honour, if not of being really in love with her, of being at
least very near it, and saved only by her own indifference— (for
still her resolution held of never marrying)—the honour, in short,
of being marked out for her by all their joint acquaintance.

Mr. Weston, on his side, added a virtue to the account which
must have some weight. He gave her to understand that Frank admired
her extremely—thought her very beautiful and very charming; and
with so much to be said for him altogether, she found she must not
judge him harshly. As Mrs. Weston observed, "all young people would
have their little whims."

There was one person among his new acquaintance in Surry, not so
leniently disposed. In general he was judged, throughout the
parishes of Donwell and Highbury, with great candour; liberal
allowances were made for the little excesses of such a handsome
young man— one who smiled so often and bowed so well; but there was
one spirit among them not to be softened, from its power of
censure, by bows or smiles—Mr. Knightley. The circumstance was told
him at Hartfield; for the moment, he was silent; but Emma heard him
almost immediately afterwards say to himself, over a newspaper he
held in his hand, "Hum! just the trifling, silly fellow I took him
for." She had half a mind to resent; but an instant's observation
convinced her that it was really said only to relieve his own
feelings, and not meant to provoke; and therefore she let it
pass.

Although in one instance the bearers of not good tidings, Mr.
and Mrs. Weston's visit this morning was in another respect
particularly opportune. Something occurred while they were at
Hartfield, to make Emma want their advice; and, which was still
more lucky, she wanted exactly the advice they gave.

This was the occurrence:—The Coles had been settled some years
in Highbury, and were very good sort of people—friendly, liberal,
and unpretending; but, on the other hand, they were of low origin,
in trade, and only moderately genteel. On their first coming into
the country, they had lived in proportion to their income, quietly,
keeping little company, and that little unexpensively; but the last
year or two had brought them a considerable increase of means— the
house in town had yielded greater profits, and fortune in general
had smiled on them. With their wealth, their views increased; their
want of a larger house, their inclination for more company. They
added to their house, to their number of servants, to their
expenses of every sort; and by this time were, in fortune and style
of living, second only to the family at Hartfield. Their love of
society, and their new dining-room, prepared every body for their
keeping dinner-company; and a few parties, chiefly among the single
men, had already taken place. The regular and best families Emma
could hardly suppose they would presume to invite— neither Donwell,
nor Hartfield, nor Randalls. Nothing should tempt her to go, if
they did; and she regretted that her father's known habits would be
giving her refusal less meaning than she could wish. The Coles were
very respectable in their way, but they ought to be taught that it
was not for them to arrange the terms on which the superior
families would visit them. This lesson, she very much feared, they
would receive only from herself; she had little hope of Mr.
Knightley, none of Mr. Weston.

