As she sat one morning, looking forward to exactly such a close
of the present day, a note was brought from Mrs. Goddard,
requesting, in most respectful terms, to be allowed to bring Miss
Smith with her; a most welcome request: for Miss Smith was a girl
of seventeen, whom Emma knew very well by sight, and had long felt
an interest in, on account of her beauty. A very gracious
invitation was returned, and the evening no longer dreaded by the
fair mistress of the mansion.

Harriet Smith was the natural daughter of somebody. Somebody had
placed her, several years back, at Mrs. Goddard's school, and
somebody had lately raised her from the condition of scholar to
that of parlour-boarder. This was all that was generally known of
her history. She had no visible friends but what had been acquired
at Highbury, and was now just returned from a long visit in the
country to some young ladies who had been at school there with
her.

She was a very pretty girl, and her beauty happened to be of a
sort which Emma particularly admired. She was short, plump, and
fair, with a fine bloom, blue eyes, light hair, regular features,
and a look of great sweetness, and, before the end of the evening,
Emma was as much pleased with her manners as her person, and quite
determined to continue the acquaintance.

She was not struck by any thing remarkably clever in Miss
Smith's conversation, but she found her altogether very
engaging—not inconveniently shy, not unwilling to talk—and yet so
far from pushing, shewing so proper and becoming a deference,
seeming so pleasantly grateful for being admitted to Hartfield, and
so artlessly impressed by the appearance of every thing in so
superior a style to what she had been used to, that she must have
good sense, and deserve encouragement. Encouragement should be
given. Those soft blue eyes, and all those natural graces, should
not be wasted on the inferior society of Highbury and its
connexions. The acquaintance she had already formed were unworthy
of her. The friends from whom she had just parted, though very good
sort of people, must be doing her harm. They were a family of the
name of Martin, whom Emma well knew by character, as renting a
large farm of Mr. Knightley, and residing in the parish of
Donwell—very creditably, she believed—she knew Mr. Knightley
thought highly of them—but they must be coarse and unpolished, and
very unfit to be the intimates of a girl who wanted only a little
more knowledge and elegance to be quite perfect. She would notice
her; she would improve her; she would detach her from her bad
acquaintance, and introduce her into good society; she would form
her opinions and her manners. It would be an interesting, and
certainly a very kind undertaking; highly becoming her own
situation in life, her leisure, and powers.

She was so busy in admiring those soft blue eyes, in talking and
listening, and forming all these schemes in the in-betweens, that
the evening flew away at a very unusual rate; and the supper-table,
which always closed such parties, and for which she had been used
to sit and watch the due time, was all set out and ready, and moved
forwards to the fire, before she was aware. With an alacrity beyond
the common impulse of a spirit which yet was never indifferent to
the credit of doing every thing well and attentively, with the real
good-will of a mind delighted with its own ideas, did she then do
all the honours of the meal, and help and recommend the minced
chicken and scalloped oysters, with an urgency which she knew would
be acceptable to the early hours and civil scruples of their
guests.

Upon such occasions poor Mr. Woodhouses feelings were in sad
warfare. He loved to have the cloth laid, because it had been the
fashion of his youth, but his conviction of suppers being very
unwholesome made him rather sorry to see any thing put on it; and
while his hospitality would have welcomed his visitors to every
thing, his care for their health made him grieve that they would
eat.

Such another small basin of thin gruel as his own was all that
he could, with thorough self-approbation, recommend; though he
might constrain himself, while the ladies were comfortably clearing
the nicer things, to say:

"Mrs. Bates, let me propose your venturing on one of these eggs.
An egg boiled very soft is not unwholesome. Serle understands
boiling an egg better than any body. I would not recommend an egg
boiled by any body else; but you need not be afraid, they are very
small, you see—one of our small eggs will not hurt you. Miss Bates,
let Emma help you to a little bit of tart—a very little bit. Ours
are all apple-tarts. You need not be afraid of unwholesome
preserves here. I do not advise the custard. Mrs. Goddard, what say
you to half a glass of wine? A small half-glass, put into a tumbler
of water? I do not think it could disagree with you."

Emma allowed her father to talk—but supplied her visitors in a
much more satisfactory style, and on the present evening had
particular pleasure in sending them away happy. The happiness of
Miss Smith was quite equal to her intentions. Miss Woodhouse was so
great a personage in Highbury, that the prospect of the
introduction had given as much panic as pleasure; but the humble,
grateful little girl went off with highly gratified feelings,
delighted with the affability with which Miss Woodhouse had treated
her all the evening, and actually shaken hands with her at
last!




