"I wish," said Mrs. Weston, "one could know which arrangement
our guests in general would like best. To do what would be most
generally pleasing must be our object—if one could but tell what
that would be."

"Yes, very true," cried Frank, "very true. You want your
neighbours' opinions. I do not wonder at you. If one could
ascertain what the chief of them—the Coles, for instance. They are
not far off. Shall I call upon them? Or Miss Bates? She is still
nearer.— And I do not know whether Miss Bates is not as likely to
understand the inclinations of the rest of the people as any body.
I think we do want a larger council. Suppose I go and invite Miss
Bates to join us?"

"Well—if you please," said Mrs. Weston rather hesitating, "if
you think she will be of any use."

"You will get nothing to the purpose from Miss Bates," said
Emma. "She will be all delight and gratitude, but she will tell you
nothing. She will not even listen to your questions. I see no
advantage in consulting Miss Bates."

"But she is so amusing, so extremely amusing! I am very fond of
hearing Miss Bates talk. And I need not bring the whole family, you
know."

Here Mr. Weston joined them, and on hearing what was proposed,
gave it his decided approbation.

"Aye, do, Frank.—Go and fetch Miss Bates, and let us end the
matter at once. She will enjoy the scheme, I am sure; and I do not
know a properer person for shewing us how to do away difficulties.
Fetch Miss Bates. We are growing a little too nice. She is a
standing lesson of how to be happy. But fetch them both. Invite
them both."

"Both sir! Can the old lady?"&#160;…

"The old lady! No, the young lady, to be sure. I shall think you
a great blockhead, Frank, if you bring the aunt without the
niece."

"Oh! I beg your pardon, sir. I did not immediately recollect.
Undoubtedly if you wish it, I will endeavour to persuade them
both." And away he ran.

Long before he reappeared, attending the short, neat,
brisk-moving aunt, and her elegant niece,—Mrs. Weston, like a
sweet-tempered woman and a good wife, had examined the passage
again, and found the evils of it much less than she had supposed
before— indeed very trifling; and here ended the difficulties of
decision. All the rest, in speculation at least, was perfectly
smooth. All the minor arrangements of table and chair, lights and
music, tea and supper, made themselves; or were left as mere
trifles to be settled at any time between Mrs. Weston and Mrs.
Stokes.— Every body invited, was certainly to come; Frank had
already written to Enscombe to propose staying a few days beyond
his fortnight, which could not possibly be refused. And a
delightful dance it was to be.
