
Mr. Knightley was thoughtful again. The result of his reverie
was, "No, Emma, I do not think the extent of my admiration for her
will ever take me by surprize.—I never had a thought of her in that
way, I assure you." And soon afterwards, "Jane Fairfax is a very
charming young woman—but not even Jane Fairfax is perfect. She has
a fault. She has not the open temper which a man would wish for in
a wife."

Emma could not but rejoice to hear that she had a fault. "Well,"
said she, "and you soon silenced Mr. Cole, I suppose?"

"Yes, very soon. He gave me a quiet hint; I told him he was
mistaken; he asked my pardon and said no more. Cole does not want
to be wiser or wittier than his neighbours."

"In that respect how unlike dear Mrs. Elton, who wants to be
wiser and wittier than all the world! I wonder how she speaks of
the Coles— what she calls them! How can she find any appellation
for them, deep enough in familiar vulgarity? She calls you,
Knightley—what can she do for Mr. Cole? And so I am not to be
surprized that Jane Fairfax accepts her civilities and consents to
be with her. Mrs. Weston, your argument weighs most with me. I can
much more readily enter into the temptation of getting away from
Miss Bates, than I can believe in the triumph of Miss Fairfax's
mind over Mrs. Elton. I have no faith in Mrs. Elton's acknowledging
herself the inferior in thought, word, or deed; or in her being
under any restraint beyond her own scanty rule of good-breeding. I
cannot imagine that she will not be continually insulting her
visitor with praise, encouragement, and offers of service; that she
will not be continually detailing her magnificent intentions, from
the procuring her a permanent situation to the including her in
those delightful exploring parties which are to take place in the
barouche-landau."

"Jane Fairfax has feeling," said Mr. Knightley—"I do not accuse
her of want of feeling. Her sensibilities, I suspect, are
strong—and her temper excellent in its power of forbearance,
patience, self-controul; but it wants openness. She is reserved,
more reserved, I think, than she used to be—And I love an open
temper. No—till Cole alluded to my supposed attachment, it had
never entered my head. I saw Jane Fairfax and conversed with her,
with admiration and pleasure always—but with no thought
beyond."

"Well, Mrs. Weston," said Emma triumphantly when he left them,
"what do you say now to Mr. Knightley's marrying Jane Fairfax?"

"Why, really, dear Emma, I say that he is so very much occupied
by the idea of not being in love with her, that I should not wonder
if it were to end in his being so at last. Do not beat me."




