"Ah!—well—to be sure. Yes, I see what she means, (turning to Mr.
Knightley,) and I will try to hold my tongue. I must make myself
very disagreeable, or she would not have said such a thing to an
old friend."

"I like your plan," cried Mr. Weston. "Agreed, agreed. I will do
my best. I am making a conundrum. How will a conundrum reckon?"

"Low, I am afraid, sir, very low," answered his son;—"but we
shall be indulgent—especially to any one who leads the way."

"No, no," said Emma, "it will not reckon low. A conundrum of Mr.
Weston's shall clear him and his next neighbour. Come, sir, pray
let me hear it."

"I doubt its being very clever myself," said Mr. Weston. "It is
too much a matter of fact, but here it is.—What two letters of the
alphabet are there, that express perfection?"

"What two letters!—express perfection! I am sure I do not
know."

"Ah! you will never guess. You, (to Emma), I am certain, will
never guess.—I will tell you.—M. and A.—Em-ma.—Do you
understand?"

Understanding and gratification came together. It might be a
very indifferent piece of wit, but Emma found a great deal to laugh
at and enjoy in it—and so did Frank and Harriet.—It did not seem to
touch the rest of the party equally; some looked very stupid about
it, and Mr. Knightley gravely said,

"This explains the sort of clever thing that is wanted, and Mr.
Weston has done very well for himself; but he must have knocked up
every body else. Perfection should not have come quite so
soon."

"Oh! for myself, I protest I must be excused," said Mrs. Elton;
"I really cannot attempt—I am not at all fond of the sort of thing.
I had an acrostic once sent to me upon my own name, which I was not
at all pleased with. I knew who it came from. An abominable puppy!—
You know who I mean (nodding to her husband). These kind of things
are very well at Christmas, when one is sitting round the fire; but
quite out of place, in my opinion, when one is exploring about the
country in summer. Miss Woodhouse must excuse me. I am not one of
those who have witty things at every body's service. I do not
pretend to be a wit. I have a great deal of vivacity in my own way,
but I really must be allowed to judge when to speak and when to
hold my tongue. Pass us, if you please, Mr. Churchill. Pass Mr. E.,
Knightley, Jane, and myself. We have nothing clever to say— not one
of us.

"Yes, yes, pray pass me," added her husband, with a sort of
sneering consciousness; "I have nothing to say that can entertain
Miss Woodhouse, or any other young lady. An old married man— quite
good for nothing. Shall we walk, Augusta?"
