Emma's colour was heightened by this unjust praise; and with a
smile, and shake of the head, which spoke much, she looked at Mr.
Knightley.— It seemed as if there were an instantaneous impression
in her favour, as if his eyes received the truth from her's, and
all that had passed of good in her feelings were at once caught and
honoured.— He looked at her with a glow of regard. She was warmly
gratified— and in another moment still more so, by a little
movement of more than common friendliness on his part.—He took her
hand;— whether she had not herself made the first motion, she could
not say— she might, perhaps, have rather offered it—but he took her
hand, pressed it, and certainly was on the point of carrying it to
his lips— when, from some fancy or other, he suddenly let it
go.—Why he should feel such a scruple, why he should change his
mind when it was all but done, she could not perceive.—He would
have judged better, she thought, if he had not stopped.—The
intention, however, was indubitable; and whether it was that his
manners had in general so little gallantry, or however else it
happened, but she thought nothing became him more.— It was with
him, of so simple, yet so dignified a nature.— She could not but
recall the attempt with great satisfaction. It spoke such perfect
amity.—He left them immediately afterwards— gone in a moment. He
always moved with the alertness of a mind which could neither be
undecided nor dilatory, but now he seemed more sudden than usual in
his disappearance.

Emma could not regret her having gone to Miss Bates, but she
wished she had left her ten minutes earlier;—it would have been a
great pleasure to talk over Jane Fairfax's situation with Mr.
Knightley.— Neither would she regret that he should be going to
Brunswick Square, for she knew how much his visit would be
enjoyed—but it might have happened at a better time—and to have had
longer notice of it, would have been pleasanter.—They parted
thorough friends, however; she could not be deceived as to the
meaning of his countenance, and his unfinished gallantry;—it was
all done to assure her that she had fully recovered his good
opinion.—He had been sitting with them half an hour, she found. It
was a pity that she had not come back earlier!

In the hope of diverting her father's thoughts from the
disagreeableness of Mr. Knightley's going to London; and going so
suddenly; and going on horseback, which she knew would be all very
bad; Emma communicated her news of Jane Fairfax, and her dependence
on the effect was justified; it supplied a very useful check,—
interested, without disturbing him. He had long made up his mind to
Jane Fairfax's going out as governess, and could talk of it
cheerfully, but Mr. Knightley's going to London had been an
unexpected blow.

"I am very glad, indeed, my dear, to hear she is to be so
comfortably settled. Mrs. Elton is very good-natured and agreeable,
and I dare say her acquaintance are just what they ought to be. I
hope it is a dry situation, and that her health will be taken good
care of. It ought to be a first object, as I am sure poor Miss
Taylor's always was with me. You know, my dear, she is going to be
to this new lady what Miss Taylor was to us. And I hope she will be
better off in one respect, and not be induced to go away after it
has been her home so long."

The following day brought news from Richmond to throw every
thing else into the background. An express arrived at Randalls to
announce the death of Mrs. Churchill! Though her nephew had had no
particular reason to hasten back on her account, she had not lived
above six-and-thirty hours after his return. A sudden seizure of a
different nature from any thing foreboded by her general state, had
carried her off after a short struggle. The great Mrs. Churchill
was no more.

It was felt as such things must be felt. Every body had a degree
of gravity and sorrow; tenderness towards the departed, solicitude
for the surviving friends; and, in a reasonable time, curiosity to
know where she would be buried. Goldsmith tells us, that when
lovely woman stoops to folly, she has nothing to do but to die; and
when she stoops to be disagreeable, it is equally to be recommended
as a clearer of ill-fame. Mrs. Churchill, after being disliked at
least twenty-five years, was now spoken of with compassionate
allowances. In one point she was fully justified. She had never
been admitted before to be seriously ill. The event acquitted her
of all the fancifulness, and all the selfishness of imaginary
complaints.

"Poor Mrs. Churchill! no doubt she had been suffering a great
deal: more than any body had ever supposed—and continual pain would
try the temper. It was a sad event—a great shock—with all her
faults, what would Mr. Churchill do without her? Mr. Churchill's
loss would be dreadful indeed. Mr. Churchill would never get over
it."— Even Mr. Weston shook his head, and looked solemn, and said,
"Ah! poor woman, who would have thought it!" and resolved, that his
mourning should be as handsome as possible; and his wife sat
sighing and moralising over her broad hems with a commiseration and
good sense, true and steady. How it would affect Frank was among
the earliest thoughts of both. It was also a very early speculation
with Emma. The character of Mrs. Churchill, the grief of her
husband—her mind glanced over them both with awe and compassion—and
then rested with lightened feelings on how Frank might be affected
by the event, how benefited, how freed. She saw in a moment all the
possible good. Now, an attachment to Harriet Smith would have
nothing to encounter. Mr. Churchill, independent of his wife, was
feared by nobody; an easy, guidable man, to be persuaded into any
thing by his nephew. All that remained to be wished was, that the
nephew should form the attachment, as, with all her goodwill in the
cause, Emma could feel no certainty of its being already
formed.

Harriet behaved extremely well on the occasion, with great
self-command. What ever she might feel of brighter hope, she
betrayed nothing. Emma was gratified, to observe such a proof in
her of strengthened character, and refrained from any allusion that
might endanger its maintenance. They spoke, therefore, of Mrs.
Churchill's death with mutual forbearance.

Short letters from Frank were received at Randalls,
communicating all that was immediately important of their state and
plans. Mr. Churchill was better than could be expected; and their
first removal, on the departure of the funeral for Yorkshire, was
to be to the house of a very old friend in Windsor, to whom Mr.
Churchill had been promising a visit the last ten years. At
present, there was nothing to be done for Harriet; good wishes for
the future were all that could yet be possible on Emma's side.

It was a more pressing concern to shew attention to Jane
Fairfax, whose prospects were closing, while Harriet's opened, and
whose engagements now allowed of no delay in any one at Highbury,
who wished to shew her kindness—and with Emma it was grown into a
first wish. She had scarcely a stronger regret than for her past
coldness; and the person, whom she had been so many months
neglecting, was now the very one on whom she would have lavished
every distinction of regard or sympathy. She wanted to be of use to
her; wanted to shew a value for her society, and testify respect
and consideration. She resolved to prevail on her to spend a day at
Hartfield. A note was written to urge it. The invitation was
refused, and by a verbal message. "Miss Fairfax was not well enough
to write;" and when Mr. Perry called at Hartfield, the same
morning, it appeared that she was so much indisposed as to have
been visited, though against her own consent, by himself, and that
she was suffering under severe headaches, and a nervous fever to a
degree, which made him doubt the possibility of her going to Mrs.
Smallridge's at the time proposed. Her health seemed for the moment
completely deranged— appetite quite gone—and though there were no
absolutely alarming symptoms, nothing touching the pulmonary
complaint, which was the standing apprehension of the family, Mr.
Perry was uneasy about her. He thought she had undertaken more than
she was equal to, and that she felt it so herself, though she would
not own it. Her spirits seemed overcome. Her present home, he could
not but observe, was unfavourable to a nervous disorder:— confined
always to one room;—he could have wished it otherwise— and her good
aunt, though his very old friend, he must acknowledge to be not the
best companion for an invalid of that description. Her care and
attention could not be questioned; they were, in fact, only too
great. He very much feared that Miss Fairfax derived more evil than
good from them. Emma listened with the warmest concern; grieved for
her more and more, and looked around eager to discover some way of
being useful. To take her—be it only an hour or two—from her aunt,
to give her change of air and scene, and quiet rational
conversation, even for an hour or two, might do her good; and the
following morning she wrote again to say, in the most feeling
language she could command, that she would call for her in the
carriage at any hour that Jane would name— mentioning that she had
Mr. Perry's decided opinion, in favour of such exercise for his
patient. The answer was only in this short note:

"Miss Fairfax's compliments and thanks, but is quite unequal to
any exercise."
