
"Very pretty, sir, upon my word; to send me on here, to be an
encumbrance to my friends, so long before you vouchsafe to come!—
But you knew what a dutiful creature you had to deal with. You knew
I should not stir till my lord and master appeared.— Here have I
been sitting this hour, giving these young ladies a sample of true
conjugal obedience—for who can say, you know, how soon it may be
wanted?"

Mr. Elton was so hot and tired, that all this wit seemed thrown
away. His civilities to the other ladies must be paid; but his
subsequent object was to lament over himself for the heat he was
suffering, and the walk he had had for nothing.

"When I got to Donwell," said he, "Knightley could not be found.
Very odd! very unaccountable! after the note I sent him this
morning, and the message he returned, that he should certainly be
at home till one."

"Donwell!" cried his wife.—"My dear Mr. E., you have not been to
Donwell!—You mean the Crown; you come from the meeting at the
Crown."

"No, no, that's to-morrow; and I particularly wanted to see
Knightley to-day on that very account.—Such a dreadful broiling
morning!— I went over the fields too—(speaking in a tone of great
ill-usage,) which made it so much the worse. And then not to find
him at home! I assure you I am not at all pleased. And no apology
left, no message for me. The housekeeper declared she knew nothing
of my being expected.— Very extraordinary!—And nobody knew at all
which way he was gone. Perhaps to Hartfield, perhaps to the Abbey
Mill, perhaps into his woods.— Miss Woodhouse, this is not like our
friend Knightley!—Can you explain it?"

Emma amused herself by protesting that it was very
extraordinary, indeed, and that she had not a syllable to say for
him.

"I cannot imagine," said Mrs. Elton, (feeling the indignity as a
wife ought to do,) "I cannot imagine how he could do such a thing
by you, of all people in the world! The very last person whom one
should expect to be forgotten!—My dear Mr. E., he must have left a
message for you, I am sure he must.—Not even Knightley could be so
very eccentric;— and his servants forgot it. Depend upon it, that
was the case: and very likely to happen with the Donwell servants,
who are all, I have often observed, extremely awkward and remiss.—I
am sure I would not have such a creature as his Harry stand at our
sideboard for any consideration. And as for Mrs. Hodges, Wright
holds her very cheap indeed.—She promised Wright a receipt, and
never sent it."

"I met William Larkins," continued Mr. Elton, "as I got near the
house, and he told me I should not find his master at home, but I
did not believe him.—William seemed rather out of humour. He did
not know what was come to his master lately, he said, but he could
hardly ever get the speech of him. I have nothing to do with
William's wants, but it really is of very great importance that I
should see Knightley to-day; and it becomes a matter, therefore, of
very serious inconvenience that I should have had this hot walk to
no purpose."

Emma felt that she could not do better than go home directly. In
all probability she was at this very time waited for there; and Mr.
Knightley might be preserved from sinking deeper in aggression
towards Mr. Elton, if not towards William Larkins.

She was pleased, on taking leave, to find Miss Fairfax
determined to attend her out of the room, to go with her even
downstairs; it gave her an opportunity which she immediately made
use of, to say,

