"Dear me!—How should I ever have borne it! It would have killed
me never to come to Hartfield any more!"

"Dear affectionate creature!—You banished to Abbey-Mill
Farm!—You confined to the society of the illiterate and vulgar all
your life! I wonder how the young man could have the assurance to
ask it. He must have a pretty good opinion of himself."

"I do not think he is conceited either, in general," said
Harriet, her conscience opposing such censure; "at least, he is
very good natured, and I shall always feel much obliged to him, and
have a great regard for—but that is quite a different thing
from—and you know, though he may like me, it does not follow that I
should—and certainly I must confess that since my visiting here I
have seen people—and if one comes to compare them, person and
manners, there is no comparison at all, one is so very handsome and
agreeable. However, I do really think Mr. Martin a very amiable
young man, and have a great opinion of him; and his being so much
attached to me—and his writing such a letter—but as to leaving you,
it is what I would not do upon any consideration."

"Thank you, thank you, my own sweet little friend. We will not
be parted. A woman is not to marry a man merely because she is
asked, or because he is attached to her, and can write a tolerable
letter."

"Oh no;—and it is but a short letter too."

Emma felt the bad taste of her friend, but let it pass with a
"very true; and it would be a small consolation to her, for the
clownish manner which might be offending her every hour of the day,
to know that her husband could write a good letter."

"Oh! yes, very. Nobody cares for a letter; the thing is, to be
always happy with pleasant companions. I am quite determined to
refuse him. But how shall I do? What shall I say?"

Emma assured her there would be no difficulty in the answer, and
advised its being written directly, which was agreed to, in the
hope of her assistance; and though Emma continued to protest
against any assistance being wanted, it was in fact given in the
formation of every sentence. The looking over his letter again, in
replying to it, had such a softening tendency, that it was
particularly necessary to brace her up with a few decisive
expressions; and she was so very much concerned at the idea of
making him unhappy, and thought so much of what his mother and
sisters would think and say, and was so anxious that they should
not fancy her ungrateful, that Emma believed if the young man had
come in her way at that moment, he would have been accepted after
all.

This letter, however, was written, and sealed, and sent. The
business was finished, and Harriet safe. She was rather low all the
evening, but Emma could allow for her amiable regrets, and
sometimes relieved them by speaking of her own affection, sometimes
by bringing forward the idea of Mr. Elton.

"I shall never be invited to Abbey-Mill again," was said in
rather a sorrowful tone.

"Nor, if you were, could I ever bear to part with you, my
Harriet. You are a great deal too necessary at Hartfield to be
spared to Abbey-Mill."
