
"I cannot help wondering at your knowing so little of Emma as to
say any such thing. What! think a farmer, (and with all his sense
and all his merit Mr. Martin is nothing more,) a good match for my
intimate friend! Not regret her leaving Highbury for the sake of
marrying a man whom I could never admit as an acquaintance of my
own! I wonder you should think it possible for me to have such
feelings. I assure you mine are very different. I must think your
statement by no means fair. You are not just to Harriet's claims.
They would be estimated very differently by others as well as
myself; Mr. Martin may be the richest of the two, but he is
undoubtedly her inferior as to rank in society.—The sphere in which
she moves is much above his.—It would be a degradation."

"A degradation to illegitimacy and ignorance, to be married to a
respectable, intelligent gentleman-farmer!"

"As to the circumstances of her birth, though in a legal sense
she may be called Nobody, it will not hold in common sense. She is
not to pay for the offence of others, by being held below the level
of those with whom she is brought up.—There can scarcely be a doubt
that her father is a gentleman—and a gentleman of fortune.—Her
allowance is very liberal; nothing has ever been grudged for her
improvement or comfort.—That she is a gentleman's daughter, is
indubitable to me; that she associates with gentlemen's daughters,
no one, I apprehend, will deny.—She is superior to Mr. Robert
Martin."

"Whoever might be her parents," said Mr. Knightley, "whoever may
have had the charge of her, it does not appear to have been any
part of their plan to introduce her into what you would call good
society. After receiving a very indifferent education she is left
in Mrs. Goddard's hands to shift as she can;—to move, in short, in
Mrs. Goddard's line, to have Mrs. Goddard's acquaintance. Her
friends evidently thought this good enough for her; and it was good
enough. She desired nothing better herself. Till you chose to turn
her into a friend, her mind had no distaste for her own set, nor
any ambition beyond it. She was as happy as possible with the
Martins in the summer. She had no sense of superiority then. If she
has it now, you have given it. You have been no friend to Harriet
Smith, Emma. Robert Martin would never have proceeded so far, if he
had not felt persuaded of her not being disinclined to him. I know
him well. He has too much real feeling to address any woman on the
haphazard of selfish passion. And as to conceit, he is the farthest
from it of any man I know. Depend upon it he had
encouragement."

It was most convenient to Emma not to make a direct reply to
this assertion; she chose rather to take up her own line of the
subject again.

"You are a very warm friend to Mr. Martin; but, as I said
before, are unjust to Harriet. Harriet's claims to marry well are
not so contemptible as you represent them. She is not a clever
girl, but she has better sense than you are aware of, and does not
deserve to have her understanding spoken of so slightingly. Waiving
that point, however, and supposing her to be, as you describe her,
only pretty and good-natured, let me tell you, that in the degree
she possesses them, they are not trivial recommendations to the
world in general, for she is, in fact, a beautiful girl, and must
be thought so by ninety-nine people out of an hundred; and till it
appears that men are much more philosophic on the subject of beauty
than they are generally supposed; till they do fall in love with
well-informed minds instead of handsome faces, a girl, with such
loveliness as Harriet, has a certainty of being admired and sought
after, of having the power of chusing from among many, consequently
a claim to be nice. Her good-nature, too, is not so very slight a
claim, comprehending, as it does, real, thorough sweetness of
temper and manner, a very humble opinion of herself, and a great
readiness to be pleased with other people. I am very much mistaken
if your sex in general would not think such beauty, and such
temper, the highest claims a woman could possess."

"Upon my word, Emma, to hear you abusing the reason you have, is
almost enough to make me think so too. Better be without sense,
than misapply it as you do."

"To be sure!" cried she playfully. "I know that is the feeling
of you all. I know that such a girl as Harriet is exactly what
every man delights in—what at once bewitches his senses and
satisfies his judgment. Oh! Harriet may pick and chuse. Were you,
yourself, ever to marry, she is the very woman for you. And is she,
at seventeen, just entering into life, just beginning to be known,
to be wondered at because she does not accept the first offer she
receives? No—pray let her have time to look about her."

"I have always thought it a very foolish intimacy," said Mr.
Knightley presently, "though I have kept my thoughts to myself; but
I now perceive that it will be a very unfortunate one for Harriet.
You will puff her up with such ideas of her own beauty, and of what
she has a claim to, that, in a little while, nobody within her
reach will be good enough for her. Vanity working on a weak head,
produces every sort of mischief. Nothing so easy as for a young
lady to raise her expectations too high. Miss Harriet Smith may not
find offers of marriage flow in so fast, though she is a very
pretty girl. Men of sense, whatever you may chuse to say, do not
want silly wives. Men of family would not be very fond of
connecting themselves with a girl of such obscurity—and most
prudent men would be afraid of the inconvenience and disgrace they
might be involved in, when the mystery of her parentage came to be
revealed. Let her marry Robert Martin, and she is safe,
respectable, and happy for ever; but if you encourage her to expect
to marry greatly, and teach her to be satisfied with nothing less
than a man of consequence and large fortune, she may be a
parlour-boarder at Mrs. Goddard's all the rest of her life—or, at
least, (for Harriet Smith is a girl who will marry somebody or
other,) till she grow desperate, and is glad to catch at the old
writing-master's son."

"We think so very differently on this point, Mr. Knightley, that
there can be no use in canvassing it. We shall only be making each
other more angry. But as to my letting her marry Robert Martin, it
is impossible; she has refused him, and so decidedly, I think, as
must prevent any second application. She must abide by the evil of
having refused him, whatever it may be; and as to the refusal
itself, I will not pretend to say that I might not influence her a
little; but I assure you there was very little for me or for any
body to do. His appearance is so much against him, and his manner
so bad, that if she ever were disposed to favour him, she is not
now. I can imagine, that before she had seen any body superior, she
might tolerate him. He was the brother of her friends, and he took
pains to please her; and altogether, having seen nobody better
(that must have been his great assistant) she might not, while she
was at Abbey-Mill, find him disagreeable. But the case is altered
now. She knows now what gentlemen are; and nothing but a gentleman
in education and manner has any chance with Harriet."

