"Nonsense, errant nonsense, as ever was talked!" cried Mr.
Knightley.—"Robert Martin's manners have sense, sincerity, and
good-humour to recommend them; and his mind has more true gentility
than Harriet Smith could understand."

Emma made no answer, and tried to look cheerfully unconcerned,
but was really feeling uncomfortable and wanting him very much to
be gone. She did not repent what she had done; she still thought
herself a better judge of such a point of female right and
refinement than he could be; but yet she had a sort of habitual
respect for his judgment in general, which made her dislike having
it so loudly against her; and to have him sitting just opposite to
her in angry state, was very disagreeable. Some minutes passed in
this unpleasant silence, with only one attempt on Emma's side to
talk of the weather, but he made no answer. He was thinking. The
result of his thoughts appeared at last in these words.

"Robert Martin has no great loss—if he can but think so; and I
hope it will not be long before he does. Your views for Harriet are
best known to yourself; but as you make no secret of your love of
match-making, it is fair to suppose that views, and plans, and
projects you have;—and as a friend I shall just hint to you that if
Elton is the man, I think it will be all labour in vain."

Emma laughed and disclaimed. He continued,

"Depend upon it, Elton will not do. Elton is a very good sort of
man, and a very respectable vicar of Highbury, but not at all
likely to make an imprudent match. He knows the value of a good
income as well as any body. Elton may talk sentimentally, but he
will act rationally. He is as well acquainted with his own claims,
as you can be with Harriet's. He knows that he is a very handsome
young man, and a great favourite wherever he goes; and from his
general way of talking in unreserved moments, when there are only
men present, I am convinced that he does not mean to throw himself
away. I have heard him speak with great animation of a large family
of young ladies that his sisters are intimate with, who have all
twenty thousand pounds apiece."

"I am very much obliged to you," said Emma, laughing again. "If
I had set my heart on Mr. Elton's marrying Harriet, it would have
been very kind to open my eyes; but at present I only want to keep
Harriet to myself. I have done with match-making indeed. I could
never hope to equal my own doings at Randalls. I shall leave off
while I am well."

"Good morning to you,"—said he, rising and walking off abruptly.
He was very much vexed. He felt the disappointment of the young
man, and was mortified to have been the means of promoting it, by
the sanction he had given; and the part which he was persuaded Emma
had taken in the affair, was provoking him exceedingly.

Emma remained in a state of vexation too; but there was more
indistinctness in the causes of her's, than in his. She did not
always feel so absolutely satisfied with herself, so entirely
convinced that her opinions were right and her adversary's wrong,
as Mr. Knightley. He walked off in more complete self-approbation
than he left for her. She was not so materially cast down, however,
but that a little time and the return of Harriet were very adequate
restoratives. Harriet's staying away so long was beginning to make
her uneasy. The possibility of the young man's coming to Mrs.
Goddard's that morning, and meeting with Harriet and pleading his
own cause, gave alarming ideas. The dread of such a failure after
all became the prominent uneasiness; and when Harriet appeared, and
in very good spirits, and without having any such reason to give
for her long absence, she felt a satisfaction which settled her
with her own mind, and convinced her, that let Mr. Knightley think
or say what he would, she had done nothing which woman's friendship
and woman's feelings would not justify.

He had frightened her a little about Mr. Elton; but when she
considered that Mr. Knightley could not have observed him as she
had done, neither with the interest, nor (she must be allowed to
tell herself, in spite of Mr. Knightley's pretensions) with the
skill of such an observer on such a question as herself, that he
had spoken it hastily and in anger, she was able to believe, that
he had rather said what he wished resentfully to be true, than what
he knew any thing about. He certainly might have heard Mr. Elton
speak with more unreserve than she had ever done, and Mr. Elton
might not be of an imprudent, inconsiderate disposition as to money
matters; he might naturally be rather attentive than otherwise to
them; but then, Mr. Knightley did not make due allowance for the
influence of a strong passion at war with all interested motives.
Mr. Knightley saw no such passion, and of course thought nothing of
its effects; but she saw too much of it to feel a doubt of its
overcoming any hesitations that a reasonable prudence might
originally suggest; and more than a reasonable, becoming degree of
prudence, she was very sure did not belong to Mr. Elton.

Harriet's cheerful look and manner established hers: she came
back, not to think of Mr. Martin, but to talk of Mr. Elton. Miss
Nash had been telling her something, which she repeated immediately
with great delight. Mr. Perry had been to Mrs. Goddard's to attend
a sick child, and Miss Nash had seen him, and he had told Miss
Nash, that as he was coming back yesterday from Clayton Park, he
had met Mr. Elton, and found to his great surprize, that Mr. Elton
was actually on his road to London, and not meaning to return till
the morrow, though it was the whist-club night, which he had been
never known to miss before; and Mr. Perry had remonstrated with him
about it, and told him how shabby it was in him, their best player,
to absent himself, and tried very much to persuade him to put off
his journey only one day; but it would not do; Mr. Elton had been
determined to go on, and had said in a very particular way indeed,
that he was going on business which he would not put off for any
inducement in the world; and something about a very enviable
commission, and being the bearer of something exceedingly precious.
Mr. Perry could not quite understand him, but he was very sure
there must be a lady in the case, and he told him so; and Mr. Elton
only looked very conscious and smiling, and rode off in great
spirits. Miss Nash had told her all this, and had talked a great
deal more about Mr. Elton; and said, looking so very significantly
at her, "that she did not pretend to understand what his business
might be, but she only knew that any woman whom Mr. Elton could
prefer, she should think the luckiest woman in the world; for,
beyond a doubt, Mr. Elton had not his equal for beauty or
agreeableness."


