"Ah, my dear," said he, "poor Miss Taylor—It is a grievous
business."

"Oh yes, sir," cried she with ready sympathy, "how you must miss
her! And dear Emma, too!—What a dreadful loss to you both!— I have
been so grieved for you.—I could not imagine how you could possibly
do without her.—It is a sad change indeed.—But I hope she is pretty
well, sir."

"Pretty well, my dear—I hope—pretty well.—I do not know but that
the place agrees with her tolerably."

Mr. John Knightley here asked Emma quietly whether there were
any doubts of the air of Randalls.

"Oh! no—none in the least. I never saw Mrs. Weston better in my
life— never looking so well. Papa is only speaking his own
regret."

"Very much to the honour of both," was the handsome reply.

"And do you see her, sir, tolerably often?" asked Isabella in
the plaintive tone which just suited her father.

Mr. Woodhouse hesitated.—"Not near so often, my dear, as I could
wish."

"Oh! papa, we have missed seeing them but one entire day since
they married. Either in the morning or evening of every day,
excepting one, have we seen either Mr. Weston or Mrs. Weston, and
generally both, either at Randalls or here—and as you may suppose,
Isabella, most frequently here. They are very, very kind in their
visits. Mr. Weston is really as kind as herself. Papa, if you speak
in that melancholy way, you will be giving Isabella a false idea of
us all. Every body must be aware that Miss Taylor must be missed,
but every body ought also to be assured that Mr. and Mrs. Weston do
really prevent our missing her by any means to the extent we
ourselves anticipated—which is the exact truth."

"Just as it should be," said Mr. John Knightley, "and just as I
hoped it was from your letters. Her wish of shewing you attention
could not be doubted, and his being a disengaged and social man
makes it all easy. I have been always telling you, my love, that I
had no idea of the change being so very material to Hartfield as
you apprehended; and now you have Emma's account, I hope you will
be satisfied."

"Why, to be sure," said Mr. Woodhouse—"yes, certainly—I cannot
deny that Mrs. Weston, poor Mrs. Weston, does come and see us
pretty often— but then—she is always obliged to go away again."
