


Chapter

15

&#160;


Mr. Woodhouse was soon ready for his tea; and when he had drank
his tea he was quite ready to go home; and it was as much as his
three companions could do, to entertain away his notice of the
lateness of the hour, before the other gentlemen appeared. Mr.
Weston was chatty and convivial, and no friend to early separations
of any sort; but at last the drawing-room party did receive an
augmentation. Mr. Elton, in very good spirits, was one of the first
to walk in. Mrs. Weston and Emma were sitting together on a sofa.
He joined them immediately, and, with scarcely an invitation,
seated himself between them.

Emma, in good spirits too, from the amusement afforded her mind
by the expectation of Mr. Frank Churchill, was willing to forget
his late improprieties, and be as well satisfied with him as
before, and on his making Harriet his very first subject, was ready
to listen with most friendly smiles.

He professed himself extremely anxious about her fair friend—
her fair, lovely, amiable friend. "Did she know?—had she heard any
thing about her, since their being at Randalls?— he felt much
anxiety—he must confess that the nature of her complaint alarmed
him considerably." And in this style he talked on for some time
very properly, not much attending to any answer, but altogether
sufficiently awake to the terror of a bad sore throat; and Emma was
quite in charity with him.

But at last there seemed a perverse turn; it seemed all at once
as if he were more afraid of its being a bad sore throat on her
account, than on Harriet's—more anxious that she should escape the
infection, than that there should be no infection in the complaint.
He began with great earnestness to entreat her to refrain from
visiting the sick-chamber again, for the present—to entreat her to
promise him not to venture into such hazard till he had seen Mr.
Perry and learnt his opinion; and though she tried to laugh it off
and bring the subject back into its proper course, there was no
putting an end to his extreme solicitude about her. She was vexed.
It did appear—there was no concealing it—exactly like the pretence
of being in love with her, instead of Harriet; an inconstancy, if
real, the most contemptible and abominable! and she had difficulty
in behaving with temper. He turned to Mrs. Weston to implore her
assistance, "Would not she give him her support?—would not she add
her persuasions to his, to induce Miss Woodhouse not to go to Mrs.
Goddard's till it were certain that Miss Smith's disorder had no
infection? He could not be satisfied without a promise— would not
she give him her influence in procuring it?"

"So scrupulous for others," he continued, "and yet so careless
for herself! She wanted me to nurse my cold by staying at home
to-day, and yet will not promise to avoid the danger of catching an
ulcerated sore throat herself. Is this fair, Mrs. Weston?—Judge
between us. Have not I some right to complain? I am sure of your
kind support and aid."

Emma saw Mrs. Weston's surprize, and felt that it must be great,
at an address which, in words and manner, was assuming to himself
the right of first interest in her; and as for herself, she was too
much provoked and offended to have the power of directly saying any
thing to the purpose. She could only give him a look; but it was
such a look as she thought must restore him to his senses, and then
left the sofa, removing to a seat by her sister, and giving her all
her attention.

