"Mr. Elton, this is the most extraordinary conduct! and I can
account for it only in one way; you are not yourself, or you could
not speak either to me, or of Harriet, in such a manner. Command
yourself enough to say no more, and I will endeavour to forget
it."

But Mr. Elton had only drunk wine enough to elevate his spirits,
not at all to confuse his intellects. He perfectly knew his own
meaning; and having warmly protested against her suspicion as most
injurious, and slightly touched upon his respect for Miss Smith as
her friend,— but acknowledging his wonder that Miss Smith should be
mentioned at all,—he resumed the subject of his own passion, and
was very urgent for a favourable answer.

As she thought less of his inebriety, she thought more of his
inconstancy and presumption; and with fewer struggles for
politeness, replied,

"It is impossible for me to doubt any longer. You have made
yourself too clear. Mr. Elton, my astonishment is much beyond any
thing I can express. After such behaviour, as I have witnessed
during the last month, to Miss Smith—such attentions as I have been
in the daily habit of observing—to be addressing me in this
manner—this is an unsteadiness of character, indeed, which I had
not supposed possible! Believe me, sir, I am far, very far, from
gratified in being the object of such professions."

"Good Heaven!" cried Mr. Elton, "what can be the meaning of
this?— Miss Smith!—I never thought of Miss Smith in the whole
course of my existence—never paid her any attentions, but as your
friend: never cared whether she were dead or alive, but as your
friend. If she has fancied otherwise, her own wishes have misled
her, and I am very sorry—extremely sorry—But, Miss Smith,
indeed!—Oh! Miss Woodhouse! who can think of Miss Smith, when Miss
Woodhouse is near! No, upon my honour, there is no unsteadiness of
character. I have thought only of you. I protest against having
paid the smallest attention to any one else. Every thing that I
have said or done, for many weeks past, has been with the sole view
of marking my adoration of yourself. You cannot really, seriously,
doubt it. No!—(in an accent meant to be insinuating)—I am sure you
have seen and understood me."

It would be impossible to say what Emma felt, on hearing this—
which of all her unpleasant sensations was uppermost. She was too
completely overpowered to be immediately able to reply: and two
moments of silence being ample encouragement for Mr. Elton's
sanguine state of mind, he tried to take her hand again, as he
joyously exclaimed—

"Charming Miss Woodhouse! allow me to interpret this interesting
silence. It confesses that you have long understood me."

"No, sir," cried Emma, "it confesses no such thing. So far from
having long understood you, I have been in a most complete error
with respect to your views, till this moment. As to myself, I am
very sorry that you should have been giving way to any feelings—
Nothing could be farther from my wishes—your attachment to my
friend Harriet—your pursuit of her, (pursuit, it appeared,) gave me
great pleasure, and I have been very earnestly wishing you success:
but had I supposed that she were not your attraction to Hartfield,
I should certainly have thought you judged ill in making your
visits so frequent. Am I to believe that you have never sought to
recommend yourself particularly to Miss Smith?—that you have never
thought seriously of her?"

"Never, madam," cried he, affronted in his turn: "never, I
assure you. I think seriously of Miss Smith!—Miss Smith is a very
good sort of girl; and I should be happy to see her respectably
settled. I wish her extremely well: and, no doubt, there are men
who might not object to—Every body has their level: but as for
myself, I am not, I think, quite so much at a loss. I need not so
totally despair of an equal alliance, as to be addressing myself to
Miss Smith!— No, madam, my visits to Hartfield have been for
yourself only; and the encouragement I received—"

"Encouragement!—I give you encouragement!—Sir, you have been
entirely mistaken in supposing it. I have seen you only as the
admirer of my friend. In no other light could you have been more to
me than a common acquaintance. I am exceedingly sorry: but it is
well that the mistake ends where it does. Had the same behaviour
continued, Miss Smith might have been led into a misconception of
your views; not being aware, probably, any more than myself, of the
very great inequality which you are so sensible of. But, as it is,
the disappointment is single, and, I trust, will not be lasting. I
have no thoughts of matrimony at present."

He was too angry to say another word; her manner too decided to
invite supplication; and in this state of swelling resentment, and
mutually deep mortification, they had to continue together a few
minutes longer, for the fears of Mr. Woodhouse had confined them to
a foot-pace. If there had not been so much anger, there would have
been desperate awkwardness; but their straightforward emotions left
no room for the little zigzags of embarrassment. Without knowing
when the carriage turned into Vicarage Lane, or when it stopped,
they found themselves, all at once, at the door of his house; and
he was out before another syllable passed.—Emma then felt it
indispensable to wish him a good night. The compliment was just
returned, coldly and proudly; and, under indescribable irritation
of spirits, she was then conveyed to Hartfield.
