
He took no note of the flight of time, but worked tranquilly on,
entertaining himself with his thoughts, which broke out
occasionally in articulate speech—

"His father wrought us evil, he destroyed us—and is gone down
into the eternal fires! &#160;Yes, down into the eternal fires!
&#160;He escaped us—but it was God's will, yes it was God's will,
we must not repine. &#160;But he hath not escaped the fires!
&#160;No, he hath not escaped the fires, the consuming, unpitying,
remorseless fires—and THEY are everlasting!"

And so he wrought, and still wrought—mumbling, chuckling a low
rasping chuckle at times—and at times breaking again into
words—

"It was his father that did it all. &#160;I am but an archangel;
but for him I should be pope!"

The King stirred. &#160;The hermit sprang noiselessly to the
bedside, and went down upon his knees, bending over the prostrate
form with his knife uplifted. &#160;The boy stirred again; his eyes
came open for an instant, but there was no speculation in them,
they saw nothing; the next moment his tranquil breathing showed
that his sleep was sound once more.

The hermit watched and listened, for a time, keeping his
position and scarcely breathing; then he slowly lowered his arms,
and presently crept away, saying,—

"It is long past midnight; it is not best that he should cry
out, lest by accident someone be passing."

He glided about his hovel, gathering a rag here, a thong there,
and another one yonder; then he returned, and by careful and gentle
handling he managed to tie the King's ankles together without
waking him. &#160;Next he essayed to tie the wrists; he made
several attempts to cross them, but the boy always drew one hand or
the other away, just as the cord was ready to be applied; but at
last, when the archangel was almost ready to despair, the boy
crossed his hands himself, and the next moment they were bound. Now
a bandage was passed under the sleeper's chin and brought up over
his head and tied fast—and so softly, so gradually, and so deftly
were the knots drawn together and compacted, that the boy slept
peacefully through it all without stirring.




