A great gate swung open, and a crowd of citizens poured in.
&#160;They flocked around the two women, and hid them from the
King's view. A clergyman entered and passed through the crowd, and
he also was hidden. &#160;The King now heard talking, back and
forth, as if questions were being asked and answered, but he could
not make out what was said. &#160;Next there was a deal of bustle
and preparation, and much passing and repassing of officials
through that part of the crowd that stood on the further side of
the women; and whilst this proceeded a deep hush gradually fell
upon the people.

Now, by command, the masses parted and fell aside, and the King
saw a spectacle that froze the marrow in his bones. &#160;Faggots
had been piled about the two women, and a kneeling man was lighting
them!

The women bowed their heads, and covered their faces with their
hands; the yellow flames began to climb upward among the snapping
and crackling faggots, and wreaths of blue smoke to stream away on
the wind; the clergyman lifted his hands and began a prayer—just
then two young girls came flying through the great gate, uttering
piercing screams, and threw themselves upon the women at the stake.
&#160;Instantly they were torn away by the officers, and one of
them was kept in a tight grip, but the other broke loose, saying
she would die with her mother; and before she could be stopped she
had flung her arms about her mother's neck again. &#160;She was
torn away once more, and with her gown on fire. &#160;Two or three
men held her, and the burning portion of her gown was snatched off
and thrown flaming aside, she struggling all the while to free
herself, and saying she would be alone in the world, now; and
begging to be allowed to die with her mother. &#160;Both the girls
screamed continually, and fought for freedom; but suddenly this
tumult was drowned under a volley of heart-piercing shrieks of
mortal agony—the King glanced from the frantic girls to the stake,
then turned away and leaned his ashen face against the wall, and
looked no more. &#160;He said, "That which I have seen, in that one
little moment, will never go out from my memory, but will abide
there; and I shall see it all the days, and dream of it all the
nights, till I die. &#160;Would God I had been blind!"

Hendon was watching the King. &#160;He said to himself,
with satisfaction, "His disorder mendeth; he hath changed, and
groweth gentler. &#160;If he had followed his wont, he would have
stormed at these varlets, and said he was King, and commanded that
the women be turned loose unscathed. &#160;Soon his delusion will
pass away and be forgotten, and his poor mind will be whole again.
&#160;God speed the day!"

That same day several prisoners were brought in to remain over
night, who were being conveyed, under guard, to various places in
the kingdom, to undergo punishment for crimes committed. &#160;The
King conversed with these—he had made it a point, from the
beginning, to instruct himself for the kingly office by questioning
prisoners whenever the opportunity offered—and the tale of their
woes wrung his heart. &#160;One of them was a poor half-witted
woman who had stolen a yard or two of cloth from a weaver—she was
to be hanged for it. &#160;Another was a man who had been accused
of stealing a horse; he said the proof had failed, and he had
imagined that he was safe from the halter; but no—he was hardly
free before he was arraigned for killing a deer in the King's park;
this was proved against him, and now he was on his way to the
gallows. &#160;There was a tradesman's apprentice whose case
particularly distressed the King; this youth said he found a hawk,
one evening, that had escaped from its owner, and he took it home
with him, imagining himself entitled to it; but the court convicted
him of stealing it, and sentenced him to death.

The King was furious over these inhumanities, and wanted Hendon
to break jail and fly with him to Westminster, so that he could
mount his throne and hold out his sceptre in mercy over these
unfortunate people and save their lives. &#160;"Poor child," sighed
Hendon, "these woeful tales have brought his malady upon him again;
alack, but for this evil hap, he would have been well in a little
time."

Among these prisoners was an old lawyer—a man with a strong face
and a dauntless mien. &#160;Three years past, he had written a
pamphlet against the Lord Chancellor, accusing him of injustice,
and had been punished for it by the loss of his ears in the
pillory, and degradation from the bar, and in addition had been
fined 3,000 pounds and sentenced to imprisonment for life.
&#160;Lately he had repeated his offence; and in consequence was
now under sentence to lose WHAT REMAINED OF HIS EARS, pay a fine of
5,000 pounds, be branded on both cheeks, and remain in prison for
life.

"These be honourable scars," he said, and turned back his grey
hair and showed the mutilated stubs of what had once been his
ears.

The King's eye burned with passion. &#160;He said—

"None believe in me—neither wilt thou. &#160;But no
matter—within the compass of a month thou shalt be free; and more,
the laws that have dishonoured thee, and shamed the English name,
shall be swept from the statute books. &#160;The world is made
wrong; kings should go to school to their own laws, at times, and
so learn mercy."


