He would have been obeyed, but the mock-King stamped his foot
and cried out—

"On your peril! &#160;Touch him not, he is the King!"

The hands were withheld; a paralysis fell upon the house; no one
moved, no one spoke; indeed, no one knew how to act or what to say,
in so strange and surprising an emergency. &#160;While all minds
were struggling to right themselves, the boy still moved steadily
forward, with high port and confident mien; he had never halted
from the beginning; and while the tangled minds still floundered
helplessly, he stepped upon the platform, and the mock-King ran
with a glad face to meet him; and fell on his knees before him and
said—

"Oh, my lord the King, let poor Tom Canty be first to swear
fealty to thee, and say, 'Put on thy crown and enter into thine own
again!'"

The Lord Protector's eye fell sternly upon the new-comer's face;
but straightway the sternness vanished away, and gave place to an
expression of wondering surprise. &#160;This thing happened also to
the other great officers. &#160;They glanced at each other, and
retreated a step by a common and unconscious impulse. &#160;The
thought in each mind was the same: &#160;"What a strange
resemblance!"

The Lord Protector reflected a moment or two in perplexity, then
he said, with grave respectfulness—

"By your favour, sir, I desire to ask certain questions
which—"

"I will answer them, my lord."

The Duke asked him many questions about the Court, the late
King, the prince, the princesses—the boy answered them correctly
and without hesitating. &#160;He described the rooms of state in
the palace, the late King's apartments, and those of the Prince of
Wales.

It was strange; it was wonderful; yes, it was unaccountable—so
all said that heard it. &#160;The tide was beginning to turn, and
Tom Canty's hopes to run high, when the Lord Protector shook his
head and said—

"It is true it is most wonderful—but it is no more than our lord
the King likewise can do." &#160;This remark, and this reference to
himself as still the King, saddened Tom Canty, and he felt his
hopes crumbling from under him. &#160;"These are not PROOFS," added
the Protector.
