
"Please you, sir, to follow me."

Hendon followed, saying to himself, "An' I were not travelling
to death and judgment, and so must needs economise in sin, I would
throttle this knave for his mock courtesy."

The two traversed a populous court, and arrived at the grand
entrance of the palace, where the officer, with another bow,
delivered Hendon into the hands of a gorgeous official, who
received him with profound respect and led him forward through a
great hall, lined on both sides with rows of splendid flunkeys (who
made reverential obeisance as the two passed along, but fell into
death-throes of silent laughter at our stately scarecrow the moment
his back was turned), and up a broad staircase, among flocks of
fine folk, and finally conducted him into a vast room, clove a
passage for him through the assembled nobility of England, then
made a bow, reminded him to take his hat off, and left him standing
in the middle of the room, a mark for all eyes, for plenty of
indignant frowns, and for a sufficiency of amused and derisive
smiles.

Miles Hendon was entirely bewildered. &#160;There sat the young
King, under a canopy of state, five steps away, with his head bent
down and aside, speaking with a sort of human bird of paradise—a
duke, maybe. &#160;Hendon observed to himself that it was hard
enough to be sentenced to death in the full vigour of life, without
having this peculiarly public humiliation added. &#160;He wished
the King would hurry about it—some of the gaudy people near by were
becoming pretty offensive. &#160;At this moment the King raised his
head slightly, and Hendon caught a good view of his face. The sight
nearly took his breath away!—He stood gazing at the fair young face
like one transfixed; then presently ejaculated—

"Lo, the Lord of the Kingdom of Dreams and Shadows on his
throne!"

He muttered some broken sentences, still gazing and marvelling;
then turned his eyes around and about, scanning the gorgeous throng
and the splendid saloon, murmuring, "But these are REAL—verily
these are REAL—surely it is not a dream."

He stared at the King again—and thought, "IS it a dream&#160;…
or IS he the veritable Sovereign of England, and not the friendless
poor Tom o' Bedlam I took him for—who shall solve me this
riddle?"

A sudden idea flashed in his eye, and he strode to the wall,
gathered up a chair, brought it back, planted it on the floor, and
sat down in it!

A buzz of indignation broke out, a rough hand was laid upon him
and a voice exclaimed—

"Up, thou mannerless clown! would'st sit in the presence of the
King?"

