Miles Hendon and Tom Canty were favourites of the King, all
through his brief reign, and his sincere mourners when he died. The
good Earl of Kent had too much sense to abuse his peculiar
privilege; but he exercised it twice after the instance we have
seen of it before he was called from this world—once at the
accession of Queen Mary, and once at the accession of Queen
Elizabeth. &#160;A descendant of his exercised it at the accession
of James I. &#160;Before this one's son chose to use the privilege,
near a quarter of a century had elapsed, and the 'privilege of the
Kents' had faded out of most people's memories; so, when the Kent
of that day appeared before Charles I. and his court and sat down
in the sovereign's presence to assert and perpetuate the right of
his house, there was a fine stir indeed! &#160;But the matter was
soon explained, and the right confirmed. &#160;The last Earl of the
line fell in the wars of the Commonwealth fighting for the King,
and the odd privilege ended with him.

Tom Canty lived to be a very old man, a handsome, white-haired
old fellow, of grave and benignant aspect. &#160;As long as he
lasted he was honoured; and he was also reverenced, for his
striking and peculiar costume kept the people reminded that 'in his
time he had been royal;' so, wherever he appeared the crowd fell
apart, making way for him, and whispering, one to another, "Doff
thy hat, it is the King's Ward!"—and so they saluted, and got his
kindly smile in return—and they valued it, too, for his was an
honourable history.

Yes, King Edward VI. lived only a few years, poor boy, but he
lived them worthily. &#160;More than once, when some great
dignitary, some gilded vassal of the crown, made argument against
his leniency, and urged that some law which he was bent upon
amending was gentle enough for its purpose, and wrought no
suffering or oppression which any one need mightily mind, the young
King turned the mournful eloquence of his great compassionate eyes
upon him and answered—

"What dost THOU know of suffering and oppression? &#160;I and my
people know, but not thou."

The reign of Edward VI. was a singularly merciful one for those
harsh times. &#160;Now that we are taking leave of him, let us try
to keep this in our minds, to his credit.




