


Chapter

6
Tom receives instructions


Tom was conducted to the principal apartment of a noble suite,
and made to sit down—a thing which he was loth to do, since there
were elderly men and men of high degree about him. &#160;He begged
them to be seated also, but they only bowed their thanks or
murmured them, and remained standing. He would have insisted, but
his 'uncle' the Earl of Hertford whispered in his ear—

"Prithee, insist not, my lord; it is not meet that they sit in
thy presence."

The Lord St. John was announced, and after making obeisance to
Tom, he said—

"I come upon the King's errand, concerning a matter which
requireth privacy. &#160;Will it please your royal highness to
dismiss all that attend you here, save my lord the Earl of
Hertford?"

Observing that Tom did not seem to know how to proceed, Hertford
whispered him to make a sign with his hand, and not trouble himself
to speak unless he chose. &#160;When the waiting gentlemen had
retired, Lord St. John said—

"His majesty commandeth, that for due and weighty reasons of
state, the prince's grace shall hide his infirmity in all ways that
be within his power, till it be passed and he be as he was before.
&#160;To wit, that he shall deny to none that he is the true
prince, and heir to England's greatness; that he shall uphold his
princely dignity, and shall receive, without word or sign of
protest, that reverence and observance which unto it do appertain
of right and ancient usage; that he shall cease to speak to any of
that lowly birth and life his malady hath conjured out of the
unwholesome imaginings of o'er-wrought fancy; that he shall strive
with diligence to bring unto his memory again those faces which he
was wont to know—and where he faileth he shall hold his peace,
neither betraying by semblance of surprise or other sign that he
hath forgot; that upon occasions of state, whensoever any matter
shall perplex him as to the thing he should do or the utterance he
should make, he shall show nought of unrest to the curious that
look on, but take advice in that matter of the Lord Hertford, or my
humble self, which are commanded of the King to be upon this
service and close at call, till this commandment be dissolved. Thus
saith the King's majesty, who sendeth greeting to your royal
highness, and prayeth that God will of His mercy quickly heal you
and have you now and ever in His holy keeping."

The Lord St. John made reverence and stood aside. &#160;Tom
replied resignedly—
