


Chapter

11
At Guildhall


The royal barge, attended by its gorgeous fleet, took its
stately way down the Thames through the wilderness of illuminated
boats. The air was laden with music; the river banks were beruffled
with joy-flames; the distant city lay in a soft luminous glow from
its countless invisible bonfires; above it rose many a slender
spire into the sky, incrusted with sparkling lights, wherefore in
their remoteness they seemed like jewelled lances thrust aloft; as
the fleet swept along, it was greeted from the banks with a
continuous hoarse roar of cheers and the ceaseless flash and boom
of artillery.

To Tom Canty, half buried in his silken cushions, these sounds
and this spectacle were a wonder unspeakably sublime and
astonishing. To his little friends at his side, the Princess
Elizabeth and the Lady Jane Grey, they were nothing.

Arrived at the Dowgate, the fleet was towed up the limpid
Walbrook (whose channel has now been for two centuries buried out
of sight under acres of buildings) to Bucklersbury, past houses and
under bridges populous with merry-makers and brilliantly lighted,
and at last came to a halt in a basin where now is Barge Yard, in
the centre of the ancient city of London. &#160;Tom disembarked,
and he and his gallant procession crossed Cheapside and made a
short march through the Old Jewry and Basinghall Street to the
Guildhall.

Tom and his little ladies were received with due ceremony by the
Lord Mayor and the Fathers of the City, in their gold chains and
scarlet robes of state, and conducted to a rich canopy of state at
the head of the great hall, preceded by heralds making
proclamation, and by the Mace and the City Sword. &#160;The lords
and ladies who were to attend upon Tom and his two small friends
took their places behind their chairs.

At a lower table the Court grandees and other guests of noble
degree were seated, with the magnates of the city; the commoners
took places at a multitude of tables on the main floor of the hall.
&#160;From their lofty vantage-ground the giants Gog and Magog, the
ancient guardians of the city, contemplated the spectacle below
them with eyes grown familiar to it in forgotten generations.
&#160;There was a bugle-blast and a proclamation, and a fat butler
appeared in a high perch in the leftward wall, followed by his
servitors bearing with impressive solemnity a royal baron of beef,
smoking hot and ready for the knife.

After grace, Tom (being instructed) rose—and the whole house
with him—and drank from a portly golden loving-cup with the
Princess Elizabeth; from her it passed to the Lady Jane, and then
traversed the general assemblage. &#160;So the banquet began.

By midnight the revelry was at its height. &#160;Now came one of
those picturesque spectacles so admired in that old day. &#160;A
description of it is still extant in the quaint wording of a
chronicler who witnessed it:
