
'Space being made, presently entered a baron and an earl
appareled after the Turkish fashion in long robes of bawdkin
powdered with gold; hats on their heads of crimson velvet, with
great rolls of gold, girded with two swords, called scimitars,
hanging by great bawdricks of gold. &#160;Next came yet another
baron and another earl, in two long gowns of yellow satin,
traversed with white satin, and in every bend of white was a bend
of crimson satin, after the fashion of Russia, with furred hats of
gray on their heads; either of them having an hatchet in their
hands, and boots with pykes' (points a foot long), 'turned up.
&#160;And after them came a knight, then the Lord High Admiral, and
with him five nobles, in doublets of crimson velvet, voyded low on
the back and before to the cannell-bone, laced on the breasts with
chains of silver; and over that, short cloaks of crimson satin, and
on their heads hats after the dancers' fashion, with pheasants'
feathers in them. &#160;These were appareled after the fashion of
Prussia. &#160;The torchbearers, which were about an hundred, were
appareled in crimson satin and green, like Moors, their faces
black. Next came in a mommarye. Then the minstrels, which were
disguised, danced; and the lords and ladies did wildly dance also,
that it was a pleasure to behold.'

And while Tom, in his high seat, was gazing upon this 'wild'
dancing, lost in admiration of the dazzling commingling of
kaleidoscopic colours which the whirling turmoil of gaudy figures
below him presented, the ragged but real little Prince of Wales was
proclaiming his rights and his wrongs, denouncing the impostor, and
clamouring for admission at the gates of Guildhall! The crowd
enjoyed this episode prodigiously, and pressed forward and craned
their necks to see the small rioter. Presently they began to taunt
him and mock at him, purposely to goad him into a higher and still
more entertaining fury. &#160;Tears of mortification sprang to his
eyes, but he stood his ground and defied the mob right royally.
&#160;Other taunts followed, added mockings stung him, and he
exclaimed—

"I tell ye again, you pack of unmannerly curs, I am the Prince
of Wales! And all forlorn and friendless as I be, with none to give
me word of grace or help me in my need, yet will not I be driven
from my ground, but will maintain it!"

"Though thou be prince or no prince, 'tis all one, thou be'st a
gallant lad, and not friendless neither! &#160;Here stand I by thy
side to prove it; and mind I tell thee thou might'st have a worser
friend than Miles Hendon and yet not tire thy legs with seeking.
Rest thy small jaw, my child; I talk the language of these base
kennel-rats like to a very native."

The speaker was a sort of Don Caesar de Bazan in dress, aspect,
and bearing. &#160;He was tall, trim-built, muscular. &#160;His
doublet and trunks were of rich material, but faded and threadbare,
and their gold-lace adornments were sadly tarnished; his ruff was
rumpled and damaged; the plume in his slouched hat was broken and
had a bedraggled and disreputable look; at his side he wore a long
rapier in a rusty iron sheath; his swaggering carriage marked him
at once as a ruffler of the camp. &#160;The speech of this
fantastic figure was received with an explosion of jeers and
laughter. &#160;Some cried, "'Tis another prince in disguise!"
"'Ware thy tongue, friend: &#160;belike he is dangerous!"
&#160;"Marry, he looketh it—mark his eye!" &#160;"Pluck the lad
from him—to the horse-pond wi' the cub!"

Instantly a hand was laid upon the Prince, under the impulse of
this happy thought; as instantly the stranger's long sword was out
and the meddler went to the earth under a sounding thump with the
flat of it. The next moment a score of voices shouted, "Kill the
dog! &#160;Kill him! Kill him!" and the mob closed in on the
warrior, who backed himself against a wall and began to lay about
him with his long weapon like a madman. &#160;His victims sprawled
this way and that, but the mob-tide poured over their prostrate
forms and dashed itself against the champion with undiminished
fury.

His moments seemed numbered, his destruction certain, when
suddenly a trumpet-blast sounded, a voice shouted, "Way for the
King's messenger!" and a troop of horsemen came charging down upon
the mob, who fled out of harm's reach as fast as their legs could
carry them. The bold stranger caught up the Prince in his arms, and
was soon far away from danger and the multitude.

Return we within the Guildhall. &#160;Suddenly, high above the
jubilant roar and thunder of the revel, broke the clear peal of a
bugle-note. &#160;There was instant silence—a deep hush; then a
single voice rose—that of the messenger from the palace—and began
to pipe forth a proclamation, the whole multitude standing
listening.

The closing words, solemnly pronounced, were—

"The King is dead!"

