
The King spoke—in a thoughtful, measured voice—

"Thou didst save me injury and shame, perchance my life, and so
my crown. Such service demandeth rich reward. &#160;Name thy
desire, and so it be within the compass of my royal power, it is
thine."

This fantastic suggestion startled Hendon out of his reverie.
&#160;He was about to thank the King and put the matter aside with
saying he had only done his duty and desired no reward, but a wiser
thought came into his head, and he asked leave to be silent a few
moments and consider the gracious offer—an idea which the King
gravely approved, remarking that it was best to be not too hasty
with a thing of such great import.

Miles reflected during some moments, then said to himself, "Yes,
that is the thing to do—by any other means it were impossible to
get at it—and certes, this hour's experience has taught me 'twould
be most wearing and inconvenient to continue it as it is. Yes, I
will propose it; 'twas a happy accident that I did not throw the
chance away." &#160;Then he dropped upon one knee and said—

"My poor service went not beyond the limit of a subject's simple
duty, and therefore hath no merit; but since your Majesty is
pleased to hold it worthy some reward, I take heart of grace to
make petition to this effect. &#160;Near four hundred years ago, as
your grace knoweth, there being ill blood betwixt John, King of
England, and the King of France, it was decreed that two champions
should fight together in the lists, and so settle the dispute by
what is called the arbitrament of God. &#160;These two kings, and
the Spanish king, being assembled to witness and judge the
conflict, the French champion appeared; but so redoubtable was he,
that our English knights refused to measure weapons with him.
&#160;So the matter, which was a weighty one, was like to go
against the English monarch by default. &#160;Now in the Tower lay
the Lord de Courcy, the mightiest arm in England, stripped of his
honours and possessions, and wasting with long captivity.
&#160;Appeal was made to him; he gave assent, and came forth
arrayed for battle; but no sooner did the Frenchman glimpse his
huge frame and hear his famous name but he fled away, and the
French king's cause was lost. &#160;King John restored De Courcy's
titles and possessions, and said, 'Name thy wish and thou shalt
have it, though it cost me half my kingdom;' whereat De Courcy,
kneeling, as I do now, made answer, 'This, then, I ask, my liege;
that I and my successors may have and hold the privilege of
remaining covered in the presence of the kings of England,
henceforth while the throne shall last.' The boon was granted, as
your Majesty knoweth; and there hath been no time, these four
hundred years, that that line has failed of an heir; and so, even
unto this day, the head of that ancient house still weareth his hat
or helm before the King's Majesty, without let or hindrance, and
this none other may do. Invoking this precedent in aid of my
prayer, I beseech the King to grant to me but this one grace and
privilege—to my more than sufficient reward—and none other, to wit:
&#160;that I and my heirs, for ever, may SIT in the presence of the
Majesty of England!"

"Rise, Sir Miles Hendon, Knight," said the King, gravely—giving
the accolade with Hendon's sword—"rise, and seat thyself. &#160;Thy
petition is granted. &#160;Whilst England remains, and the crown
continues, the privilege shall not lapse."

His Majesty walked apart, musing, and Hendon dropped into a
chair at table, observing to himself, "'Twas a brave thought, and
hath wrought me a mighty deliverance; my legs are grievously
wearied. An I had not thought of that, I must have had to stand for
weeks, till my poor lad's wits are cured." &#160;After a little, he
went on, "And so I am become a knight of the Kingdom of Dreams and
Shadows! A most odd and strange position, truly, for one so
matter-of-fact as I. &#160;I will not laugh—no, God forbid, for
this thing which is so substanceless to me is REAL to him.
&#160;And to me, also, in one way, it is not a falsity, for it
reflects with truth the sweet and generous spirit that is in him."
&#160;After a pause: "Ah, what if he should call me by my fine
title before folk!—there'd be a merry contrast betwixt my glory and
my raiment! &#160;But no matter, let him call me what he will, so
it please him; I shall be content."




