The weighty business of dressing began, and one courtier after
another knelt and paid his court and offered to the little King his
condolences upon his heavy loss, whilst the dressing proceeded.
&#160;In the beginning, a shirt was taken up by the Chief Equerry
in Waiting, who passed it to the First Lord of the Buckhounds, who
passed it to the Second Gentleman of the Bedchamber, who passed it
to the Head Ranger of Windsor Forest, who passed it to the Third
Groom of the Stole, who passed it to the Chancellor Royal of the
Duchy of Lancaster, who passed it to the Master of the Wardrobe,
who passed it to Norroy King-at-Arms, who passed it to the
Constable of the Tower, who passed it to the Chief Steward of the
Household, who passed it to the Hereditary Grand Diaperer, who
passed it to the Lord High Admiral of England, who passed it to the
Archbishop of Canterbury, who passed it to the First Lord of the
Bedchamber, who took what was left of it and put it on Tom.
&#160;Poor little wondering chap, it reminded him of passing
buckets at a fire.

Each garment in its turn had to go through this slow and solemn
process; consequently Tom grew very weary of the ceremony; so weary
that he felt an almost gushing gratefulness when he at last saw his
long silken hose begin the journey down the line and knew that the
end of the matter was drawing near. &#160;But he exulted too soon.
&#160;The First Lord of the Bedchamber received the hose and was
about to encase Tom's legs in them, when a sudden flush invaded his
face and he hurriedly hustled the things back into the hands of the
Archbishop of Canterbury with an astounded look and a whispered,
"See, my lord!" pointing to a something connected with the hose.
&#160;The Archbishop paled, then flushed, and passed the hose to
the Lord High Admiral, whispering, "See, my lord!" &#160;The
Admiral passed the hose to the Hereditary Grand Diaperer, and had
hardly breath enough in his body to ejaculate, "See, my lord!"
&#160;The hose drifted backward along the line, to the Chief
Steward of the Household, the Constable of the Tower, Norroy
King-at-Arms, the Master of the Wardrobe, the Chancellor Royal of
the Duchy of Lancaster, the Third Groom of the Stole, the Head
Ranger of Windsor Forest, the Second Gentleman of the Bedchamber,
the First Lord of the Buckhounds,—accompanied always with that
amazed and frightened "See! see!"—till they finally reached the
hands of the Chief Equerry in Waiting, who gazed a moment, with a
pallid face, upon what had caused all this dismay, then hoarsely
whispered, "Body of my life, a tag gone from a truss-point!—to the
Tower with the Head Keeper of the King's Hose!"—after which he
leaned upon the shoulder of the First Lord of the Buckhounds to
regather his vanished strength whilst fresh hose, without any
damaged strings to them, were brought.

But all things must have an end, and so in time Tom Canty was in
a condition to get out of bed. &#160;The proper official poured
water, the proper official engineered the washing, the proper
official stood by with a towel, and by-and-by Tom got safely
through the purifying stage and was ready for the services of the
Hairdresser-royal. &#160;When he at length emerged from this
master's hands, he was a gracious figure and as pretty as a girl,
in his mantle and trunks of purple satin, and purple-plumed cap.
&#160;He now moved in state toward his breakfast-room, through the
midst of the courtly assemblage; and as he passed, these fell back,
leaving his way free, and dropped upon their knees.

After breakfast he was conducted, with regal ceremony, attended
by his great officers and his guard of fifty Gentlemen Pensioners
bearing gilt battle-axes, to the throne-room, where he proceeded to
transact business of state. &#160;His 'uncle,' Lord Hertford, took
his stand by the throne, to assist the royal mind with wise
counsel.

The body of illustrious men named by the late King as his
executors appeared, to ask Tom's approval of certain acts of
theirs—rather a form, and yet not wholly a form, since there was no
Protector as yet. &#160;The Archbishop of Canterbury made report of
the decree of the Council of Executors concerning the obsequies of
his late most illustrious Majesty, and finished by reading the
signatures of the Executors, to wit: &#160;the Archbishop of
Canterbury; the Lord Chancellor of England; William Lord St. John;
John Lord Russell; Edward Earl of Hertford; John Viscount Lisle;
Cuthbert Bishop of Durham—

Tom was not listening—an earlier clause of the document was
puzzling him. &#160;At this point he turned and whispered to Lord
Hertford—

"What day did he say the burial hath been appointed for?"

"The sixteenth of the coming month, my liege."

"'Tis a strange folly. &#160;Will he keep?"

Poor chap, he was still new to the customs of royalty; he was
used to seeing the forlorn dead of Offal Court hustled out of the
way with a very different sort of expedition. &#160;However, the
Lord Hertford set his mind at rest with a word or two.

A secretary of state presented an order of the Council
appointing the morrow at eleven for the reception of the foreign
ambassadors, and desired the King's assent.
