


Chapter

15
Tom as King


The next day the foreign ambassadors came, with their gorgeous
trains; and Tom, throned in awful state, received them. &#160;The
splendours of the scene delighted his eye and fired his imagination
at first, but the audience was long and dreary, and so were most of
the addresses—wherefore, what began as a pleasure grew into
weariness and home-sickness by-and-by. &#160;Tom said the words
which Hertford put into his mouth from time to time, and tried hard
to acquit himself satisfactorily, but he was too new to such
things, and too ill at ease to accomplish more than a tolerable
success. &#160;He looked sufficiently like a king, but he was ill
able to feel like one. &#160;He was cordially glad when the
ceremony was ended.

The larger part of his day was 'wasted'—as he termed it, in his
own mind—in labours pertaining to his royal office. &#160;Even the
two hours devoted to certain princely pastimes and recreations were
rather a burden to him than otherwise, they were so fettered by
restrictions and ceremonious observances. &#160;However, he had a
private hour with his whipping-boy which he counted clear gain,
since he got both entertainment and needful information out of
it.

The third day of Tom Canty's kingship came and went much as the
others had done, but there was a lifting of his cloud in one way—he
felt less uncomfortable than at first; he was getting a little used
to his circumstances and surroundings; his chains still galled, but
not all the time; he found that the presence and homage of the
great afflicted and embarrassed him less and less sharply with
every hour that drifted over his head.

But for one single dread, he could have seen the fourth day
approach without serious distress—the dining in public; it was to
begin that day. There were greater matters in the programme—for on
that day he would have to preside at a council which would take his
views and commands concerning the policy to be pursued toward
various foreign nations scattered far and near over the great
globe; on that day, too, Hertford would be formally chosen to the
grand office of Lord Protector; other things of note were appointed
for that fourth day, also; but to Tom they were all insignificant
compared with the ordeal of dining all by himself with a multitude
of curious eyes fastened upon him and a multitude of mouths
whispering comments upon his performance,—and upon his mistakes, if
he should be so unlucky as to make any.

Still, nothing could stop that fourth day, and so it came.
&#160;It found poor Tom low-spirited and absent-minded, and this
mood continued; he could not shake it off. &#160;The ordinary
duties of the morning dragged upon his hands, and wearied him.
&#160;Once more he felt the sense of captivity heavy upon him.

Late in the forenoon he was in a large audience-chamber,
conversing with the Earl of Hertford and dully awaiting the
striking of the hour appointed for a visit of ceremony from a
considerable number of great officials and courtiers.

After a little while, Tom, who had wandered to a window and
become interested in the life and movement of the great highway
beyond the palace gates—and not idly interested, but longing with
all his heart to take part in person in its stir and freedom—saw
the van of a hooting and shouting mob of disorderly men, women, and
children of the lowest and poorest degree approaching from up the
road.
