In a little while the measured tread of military men was heard
approaching, and the culprits entered the presence in charge of an
under-sheriff and escorted by a detail of the king's guard.
&#160;The civil officer knelt before Tom, then stood aside; the
three doomed persons knelt, also, and remained so; the guard took
position behind Tom's chair. &#160;Tom scanned the prisoners
curiously. Something about the dress or appearance of the man had
stirred a vague memory in him. &#160;"Methinks I have seen this man
ere now&#160;… but the when or the where fail me."—Such was Tom's
thought. Just then the man glanced quickly up and quickly dropped
his face again, not being able to endure the awful port of
sovereignty; but the one full glimpse of the face which Tom got was
sufficient. &#160;He said to himself: "Now is the matter clear;
this is the stranger that plucked Giles Witt out of the Thames, and
saved his life, that windy, bitter, first day of the New Year—a
brave good deed—pity he hath been doing baser ones and got himself
in this sad case&#160;… I have not forgot the day, neither the
hour; by reason that an hour after, upon the stroke of eleven, I
did get a hiding by the hand of Gammer Canty which was of so goodly
and admired severity that all that went before or followed after it
were but fondlings and caresses by comparison."

Tom now ordered that the woman and the girl be removed from the
presence for a little time; then addressed himself to the
under-sheriff, saying—

"Good sir, what is this man's offence?"

The officer knelt, and answered—

"So please your Majesty, he hath taken the life of a subject by
poison."

Tom's compassion for the prisoner, and admiration of him as the
daring rescuer of a drowning boy, experienced a most damaging
shock.

"The thing was proven upon him?" he asked.

"Most clearly, sire."

Tom sighed, and said—

"Take him away—he hath earned his death. &#160;'Tis a pity, for
he was a brave heart—na—na, I mean he hath the LOOK of it!"

The prisoner clasped his hands together with sudden energy, and
wrung them despairingly, at the same time appealing imploringly to
the 'King' in broken and terrified phrases—
