Several old heads among the assemblage nodded their recognition
of the wisdom of this question. &#160;The sheriff, however, saw
nothing consequential in the inquiry; he answered, with simple
directness—

"Indeed did she, your Majesty, and most righteously, as all
aver. Her habitation was swept away, and herself and child left
shelterless."

"Methinks the power to do herself so ill a turn was dearly
bought. She had been cheated, had she paid but a farthing for it;
that she paid her soul, and her child's, argueth that she is mad;
if she is mad she knoweth not what she doth, therefore sinneth
not."

The elderly heads nodded recognition of Tom's wisdom once more,
and one individual murmured, "An' the King be mad himself,
according to report, then is it a madness of a sort that would
improve the sanity of some I wot of, if by the gentle providence of
God they could but catch it."

"What age hath the child?" asked Tom.

"Nine years, please your Majesty."

"By the law of England may a child enter into covenant and sell
itself, my lord?" asked Tom, turning to a learned judge.

"The law doth not permit a child to make or meddle in any
weighty matter, good my liege, holding that its callow wit
unfitteth it to cope with the riper wit and evil schemings of them
that are its elders. &#160;The DEVIL may buy a child, if he so
choose, and the child agree thereto, but not an Englishman—in this
latter case the contract would be null and void."

"It seemeth a rude unchristian thing, and ill contrived, that
English law denieth privileges to Englishmen to waste them on the
devil!" cried Tom, with honest heat.

This novel view of the matter excited many smiles, and was
stored away in many heads to be repeated about the Court as
evidence of Tom's originality as well as progress toward mental
health.

The elder culprit had ceased from sobbing, and was hanging upon
Tom's words with an excited interest and a growing hope. &#160;Tom
noticed this, and it strongly inclined his sympathies toward her in
her perilous and unfriended situation. &#160;Presently he
asked—
