


Chapter

13
DO YOU BELIEVE IN FAIRIES?


The more quickly this horror is disposed of the better. The
first to emerge from his tree was Curly. He rose out of it into the
arms of Cecco, who flung him to Smee, who flung him to Starkey, who
flung him to Bill Jukes, who flung him to Noodler, and so he was
tossed from one to another till he fell at the feet of the black
pirate. All the boys were plucked from their trees in this ruthless
manner; and several of them were in the air at a time, like bales
of goods flung from hand to hand.

A different treatment was accorded to Wendy, who came last. With
ironical politeness Hook raised his hat to her, and, offering her
his arm, escorted her to the spot where the others were being
gagged. He did it with such an air, he was so frightfully DISTINGUE
[imposingly distinguished], that she was too fascinated to cry out.
She was only a little girl.

Perhaps it is tell-tale to divulge that for a moment Hook
entranced her, and we tell on her only because her slip led to
strange results. Had she haughtily unhanded him (and we should have
loved to write it of her), she would have been hurled through the
air like the others, and then Hook would probably not have been
present at the tying of the children; and had he not been at the
tying he would not have discovered Slightly's secret, and without
the secret he could not presently have made his foul attempt on
Peter's life.

They were tied to prevent their flying away, doubled up with
their knees close to their ears; and for the trussing of them the
black pirate had cut a rope into nine equal pieces. All went well
until Slightly's turn came, when he was found to be like those
irritating parcels that use up all the string in going round and
leave no tags [ends] with which to tie a knot. The pirates kicked
him in their rage, just as you kick the parcel (though in fairness
you should kick the string); and strange to say it was Hook who
told them to belay their violence. His lip was curled with
malicious triumph. While his dogs were merely sweating because
every time they tried to pack the unhappy lad tight in one part he
bulged out in another, Hook's master mind had gone far beneath
Slightly's surface, probing not for effects but for causes; and his
exultation showed that he had found them. Slightly, white to the
gills, knew that Hook had surprised [discovered] his secret, which
was this, that no boy so blown out could use a tree wherein an
average man need stick. Poor Slightly, most wretched of all the
children now, for he was in a panic about Peter, bitterly regretted
what he had done. Madly addicted to the drinking of water when he
was hot, he had swelled in consequence to his present girth, and
instead of reducing himself to fit his tree he had, unknown to the
others, whittled his tree to make it fit him.

Sufficient of this Hook guessed to persuade him that Peter at
last lay at his mercy, but no word of the dark design that now
formed in the subterranean caverns of his mind crossed his lips; he
merely signed that the captives were to be conveyed to the ship,
and that he would be alone.

How to convey them? Hunched up in their ropes they might indeed
be rolled down hill like barrels, but most of the way lay through a
morass. Again Hook's genius surmounted difficulties. He indicated
that the little house must be used as a conveyance. The children
were flung into it, four stout pirates raised it on their
shoulders, the others fell in behind, and singing the hateful
pirate chorus the strange procession set off through the wood. I
don't know whether any of the children were crying; if so, the
singing drowned the sound; but as the little house disappeared in
the forest, a brave though tiny jet of smoke issued from its
chimney as if defying Hook.

Hook saw it, and it did Peter a bad service. It dried up any
trickle of pity for him that may have remained in the pirate's
infuriated breast.
