
The first thing he did on finding himself alone in the fast
falling night was to tiptoe to Slightly's tree, and make sure that
it provided him with a passage. Then for long he remained brooding;
his hat of ill omen on the sward, so that any gentle breeze which
had arisen might play refreshingly through his hair. Dark as were
his thoughts his blue eyes were as soft as the periwinkle. Intently
he listened for any sound from the nether world, but all was as
silent below as above; the house under the ground seemed to be but
one more empty tenement in the void. Was that boy asleep, or did he
stand waiting at the foot of Slightly's tree, with his dagger in
his hand?

There was no way of knowing, save by going down. Hook let his
cloak slip softly to the ground, and then biting his lips till a
lewd blood stood on them, he stepped into the tree. He was a brave
man, but for a moment he had to stop there and wipe his brow, which
was dripping like a candle. Then, silently, he let himself go into
the unknown.

He arrived unmolested at the foot of the shaft, and stood still
again, biting at his breath, which had almost left him. As his eyes
became accustomed to the dim light various objects in the home
under the trees took shape; but the only one on which his greedy
gaze rested, long sought for and found at last, was the great bed.
On the bed lay Peter fast asleep.

Unaware of the tragedy being enacted above, Peter had continued,
for a little time after the children left, to play gaily on his
pipes: no doubt rather a forlorn attempt to prove to himself that
he did not care. Then he decided not to take his medicine, so as to
grieve Wendy. Then he lay down on the bed outside the coverlet, to
vex her still more; for she had always tucked them inside it,
because you never know that you may not grow chilly at the turn of
the night. Then he nearly cried; but it struck him how indignant
she would be if he laughed instead; so he laughed a haughty laugh
and fell asleep in the middle of it.

Sometimes, though not often, he had dreams, and they were more
painful than the dreams of other boys. For hours he could not be
separated from these dreams, though he wailed piteously in them.
They had to do, I think, with the riddle of his existence. At such
times it had been Wendy's custom to take him out of bed and sit
with him on her lap, soothing him in dear ways of her own
invention, and when he grew calmer to put him back to bed before he
quite woke up, so that he should not know of the indignity to which
she had subjected him. But on this occasion he had fallen at once
into a dreamless sleep. One arm dropped over the edge of the bed,
one leg was arched, and the unfinished part of his laugh was
stranded on his mouth, which was open, showing the little
pearls.

Thus defenceless Hook found him. He stood silent at the foot of
the tree looking across the chamber at his enemy. Did no feeling of
compassion disturb his sombre breast? The man was not wholly evil;
he loved flowers (I have been told) and sweet music (he was himself
no mean performer on the harpsichord); and, let it be frankly
admitted, the idyllic nature of the scene stirred him profoundly.
Mastered by his better self he would have returned reluctantly up
the tree, but for one thing.

What stayed him was Peter's impertinent appearance as he slept.
The open mouth, the drooping arm, the arched knee: they were such a
personification of cockiness as, taken together, will never again,
one may hope, be presented to eyes so sensitive to their
offensiveness. They steeled Hook's heart. If his rage had broken
him into a hundred pieces every one of them would have disregarded
the incident, and leapt at the sleeper.

Though a light from the one lamp shone dimly on the bed, Hook
stood in darkness himself, and at the first stealthy step forward
he discovered an obstacle, the door of Slightly's tree. It did not
entirely fill the aperture, and he had been looking over it.
Feeling for the catch, he found to his fury that it was low down,
beyond his reach. To his disordered brain it seemed then that the
irritating quality in Peter's face and figure visibly increased,
and he rattled the door and flung himself against it. Was his enemy
to escape him after all?

But what was that? The red in his eye had caught sight of
Peter's medicine standing on a ledge within easy reach. He fathomed
what it was straightaway, and immediately knew that the sleeper was
in his power.

Lest he should be taken alive, Hook always carried about his
person a dreadful drug, blended by himself of all the death-dealing
rings that had come into his possession. These he had boiled down
into a yellow liquid quite unknown to science, which was probably
the most virulent poison in existence.

