
"But he does so need a mother."

"So do you, my love."

"Oh, all right," Peter said, as if he had asked her from
politeness merely; but Mrs. Darling saw his mouth twitch, and she
made this handsome offer: to let Wendy go to him for a week every
year to do his spring cleaning. Wendy would have preferred a more
permanent arrangement; and it seemed to her that spring would be
long in coming; but this promise sent Peter away quite gay again.
He had no sense of time, and was so full of adventures that all I
have told you about him is only a halfpenny-worth of them. I
suppose it was because Wendy knew this that her last words to him
were these rather plaintive ones:

"You won't forget me, Peter, will you, before spring cleaning
time comes?"

Of course Peter promised; and then he flew away. He took Mrs.
Darling's kiss with him. The kiss that had been for no one else,
Peter took quite easily. Funny. But she seemed satisfied.

Of course all the boys went to school; and most of them got into
Class III, but Slightly was put first into Class IV and then into
Class V. Class I is the top class. Before they had attended school
a week they saw what goats they had been not to remain on the
island; but it was too late now, and soon they settled down to
being as ordinary as you or me or Jenkins minor [the younger
Jenkins]. It is sad to have to say that the power to fly gradually
left them. At first Nana tied their feet to the bed-posts so that
they should not fly away in the night; and one of their diversions
by day was to pretend to fall off buses [the English
double-deckers]; but by and by they ceased to tug at their bonds in
bed, and found that they hurt themselves when they let go of the
bus. In time they could not even fly after their hats. Want of
practice, they called it; but what it really meant was that they no
longer believed.

Michael believed longer than the other boys, though they jeered
at him; so he was with Wendy when Peter came for her at the end of
the first year. She flew away with Peter in the frock she had woven
from leaves and berries in the Neverland, and her one fear was that
he might notice how short it had become; but he never noticed, he
had so much to say about himself.

She had looked forward to thrilling talks with him about old
times, but new adventures had crowded the old ones from his
mind.

"Who is Captain Hook?" he asked with interest when she spoke of
the arch enemy.

"Don't you remember," she asked, amazed, "how you killed him and
saved all our lives?"

