
"Yes, I do."

"I think it's perfectly sweet of you," she declared, "and I'll
get up again," and she sat with him on the side of the bed. She
also said she would give him a kiss if he liked, but Peter did not
know what she meant, and he held out his hand expectantly.

"Surely you know what a kiss is?" she asked, aghast.

"I shall know when you give it to me," he replied stiffly, and
not to hurt his feeling she gave him a thimble.

"Now," said he, "shall I give you a kiss?" and she replied with
a slight primness, "If you please." She made herself rather cheap
by inclining her face toward him, but he merely dropped an acorn
button into her hand, so she slowly returned her face to where it
had been before, and said nicely that she would wear his kiss on
the chain around her neck. It was lucky that she did put it on that
chain, for it was afterwards to save her life.

When people in our set are introduced, it is customary for them
to ask each other's age, and so Wendy, who always liked to do the
correct thing, asked Peter how old he was. It was not really a
happy question to ask him; it was like an examination paper that
asks grammar, when what you want to be asked is Kings of
England.

"I don't know," he replied uneasily, "but I am quite young." He
really knew nothing about it, he had merely suspicions, but he said
at a venture, "Wendy, I ran away the day I was born."

Wendy was quite surprised, but interested; and she indicated in
the charming drawing-room manner, by a touch on her night-gown,
that he could sit nearer her.

"It was because I heard father and mother," he explained in a
low voice, "talking about what I was to be when I became a man." He
was extraordinarily agitated now. "I don't want ever to be a man,"
he said with passion. "I want always to be a little boy and to have
fun. So I ran away to Kensington Gardens and lived a long long time
among the fairies."

She gave him a look of the most intense admiration, and he
thought it was because he had run away, but it was really because
he knew fairies. Wendy had lived such a home life that to know
fairies struck her as quite delightful. She poured out questions
about them, to his surprise, for they were rather a nuisance to
him, getting in his way and so on, and indeed he sometimes had to
give them a hiding [spanking]. Still, he liked them on the whole,
and he told her about the beginning of fairies.

