


Chapter

7
THE HOME UNDER THE GROUND


One of the first things Peter did next day was to measure Wendy
and John and Michael for hollow trees. Hook, you remember, had
sneered at the boys for thinking they needed a tree apiece, but
this was ignorance, for unless your tree fitted you it was
difficult to go up and down, and no two of the boys were quite the
same size. Once you fitted, you drew in [let out] your breath at
the top, and down you went at exactly the right speed, while to
ascend you drew in and let out alternately, and so wriggled up. Of
course, when you have mastered the action you are able to do these
things without thinking of them, and nothing can be more
graceful.

But you simply must fit, and Peter measures you for your tree as
carefully as for a suit of clothes: the only difference being that
the clothes are made to fit you, while you have to be made to fit
the tree. Usually it is done quite easily, as by your wearing too
many garments or too few, but if you are bumpy in awkward places or
the only available tree is an odd shape, Peter does some things to
you, and after that you fit. Once you fit, great care must be taken
to go on fitting, and this, as Wendy was to discover to her
delight, keeps a whole family in perfect condition.

Wendy and Michael fitted their trees at the first try, but John
had to be altered a little.

After a few days' practice they could go up and down as gaily as
buckets in a well. And how ardently they grew to love their home
under the ground; especially Wendy. It consisted of one large room,
as all houses should do, with a floor in which you could dig [for
worms] if you wanted to go fishing, and in this floor grew stout
mushrooms of a charming colour, which were used as stools. A Never
tree tried hard to grow in the centre of the room, but every
morning they sawed the trunk through, level with the floor. By
tea-time it was always about two feet high, and then they put a
door on top of it, the whole thus becoming a table; as soon as they
cleared away, they sawed off the trunk again, and thus there was
more room to play. There was an enormous fireplace which was in
almost any part of the room where you cared to light it, and across
this Wendy stretched strings, made of fibre, from which she
suspended her washing. The bed was tilted against the wall by day,
and let down at 6:30, when it filled nearly half the room; and all
the boys slept in it, except Michael, lying like sardines in a tin.
There was a strict rule against turning round until one gave the
signal, when all turned at once. Michael should have used it also,
but Wendy would have [desired] a baby, and he was the littlest, and
you know what women are, and the short and long of it is that he
was hung up in a basket.

It was rough and simple, and not unlike what baby bears would
have made of an underground house in the same circumstances. But
there was one recess in the wall, no larger than a bird-cage, which
was the private apartment of Tinker Bell. It could be shut off from
the rest of the house by a tiny curtain, which Tink, who was most
fastidious [particular], always kept drawn when dressing or
undressing. No woman, however large, could have had a more
exquisite boudoir [dressing room] and bed-chamber combined. The
couch, as she always called it, was a genuine Queen Mab, with club
legs; and she varied the bedspreads according to what fruit-blossom
was in season. Her mirror was a Puss-in-Boots, of which there are
now only three, unchipped, known to fairy dealers; the washstand
was Pie-crust and reversible, the chest of drawers an authentic
Charming the Sixth, and the carpet and rugs the best (the early)
period of Margery and Robin. There was a chandelier from
Tiddlywinks for the look of the thing, but of course she lit the
residence herself. Tink was very contemptuous of the rest of the
house, as indeed was perhaps inevitable, and her chamber, though
beautiful, looked rather conceited, having the appearance of a nose
permanently turned up.

I suppose it was all especially entrancing to Wendy, because
those rampagious boys of hers gave her so much to do. Really there
were whole weeks when, except perhaps with a stocking in the
evening, she was never above ground. The cooking, I can tell you,
kept her nose to the pot, and even if there was nothing in it, even
if there was no pot, she had to keep watching that it came aboil
just the same. You never exactly knew whether there would be a real
meal or just a make-believe, it all depended upon Peter's whim: he
could eat, really eat, if it was part of a game, but he could not
stodge [cram down the food] just to feel stodgy [stuffed with
food], which is what most children like better than anything else;
the next best thing being to talk about it. Make-believe was so
real to him that during a meal of it you could see him getting
rounder. Of course it was trying, but you simply had to follow his
lead, and if you could prove to him that you were getting loose for
your tree he let you stodge.

Wendy's favourite time for sewing and darning was after they had
all gone to bed. Then, as she expressed it, she had a breathing
time for herself; and she occupied it in making new things for
them, and putting double pieces on the knees, for they were all
most frightfully hard on their knees.
