
While she stitched a change came to the lagoon. Little shivers
ran over it, and the sun went away and shadows stole across the
water, turning it cold. Wendy could no longer see to thread her
needle, and when she looked up, the lagoon that had always hitherto
been such a laughing place seemed formidable and unfriendly.

It was not, she knew, that night had come, but something as dark
as night had come. No, worse than that. It had not come, but it had
sent that shiver through the sea to say that it was coming. What
was it?

There crowded upon her all the stories she had been told of
Marooners' Rock, so called because evil captains put sailors on it
and leave them there to drown. They drown when the tide rises, for
then it is submerged.

Of course she should have roused the children at once; not
merely because of the unknown that was stalking toward them, but
because it was no longer good for them to sleep on a rock grown
chilly. But she was a young mother and she did not know this; she
thought you simply must stick to your rule about half an hour after
the mid-day meal. So, though fear was upon her, and she longed to
hear male voices, she would not waken them. Even when she heard the
sound of muffled oars, though her heart was in her mouth, she did
not waken them. She stood over them to let them have their sleep
out. Was it not brave of Wendy?

It was well for those boys then that there was one among them
who could sniff danger even in his sleep. Peter sprang erect, as
wide awake at once as a dog, and with one warning cry he roused the
others.

He stood motionless, one hand to his ear.

"Pirates!" he cried. The others came closer to him. A strange
smile was playing about his face, and Wendy saw it and shuddered.
While that smile was on his face no one dared address him; all they
could do was to stand ready to obey. The order came sharp and
incisive.

"Dive!"

There was a gleam of legs, and instantly the lagoon seemed
deserted. Marooners' Rock stood alone in the forbidding waters as
if it were itself marooned.

The boat drew nearer. It was the pirate dinghy, with three
figures in her, Smee and Starkey, and the third a captive, no other
than Tiger Lily. Her hands and ankles were tied, and she knew what
was to be her fate. She was to be left on the rock to perish, an
end to one of her race more terrible than death by fire or torture,
for is it not written in the book of the tribe that there is no
path through water to the happy hunting-ground? Yet her face was
impassive; she was the daughter of a chief, she must die as a
chief's daughter, it is enough.

