Nevertheless the bird was determined to save him if she could,
and by one last mighty effort she propelled the nest against the
rock. Then up she flew; deserting her eggs, so as to make her
meaning clear.

Then at last he understood, and clutched the nest and waved his
thanks to the bird as she fluttered overhead. It was not to receive
his thanks, however, that she hung there in the sky; it was not
even to watch him get into the nest; it was to see what he did with
her eggs.

There were two large white eggs, and Peter lifted them up and
reflected. The bird covered her face with her wings, so as not to
see the last of them; but she could not help peeping between the
feathers.

I forget whether I have told you that there was a stave on the
rock, driven into it by some buccaneers of long ago to mark the
site of buried treasure. The children had discovered the glittering
hoard, and when in a mischievous mood used to fling showers of
moidores, diamonds, pearls and pieces of eight to the gulls, who
pounced upon them for food, and then flew away, raging at the
scurvy trick that had been played upon them. The stave was still
there, and on it Starkey had hung his hat, a deep tarpaulin,
watertight, with a broad brim. Peter put the eggs into this hat and
set it on the lagoon. It floated beautifully.

The Never bird saw at once what he was up to, and screamed her
admiration of him; and, alas, Peter crowed his agreement with her.
Then he got into the nest, reared the stave in it as a mast, and
hung up his shirt for a sail. At the same moment the bird fluttered
down upon the hat and once more sat snugly on her eggs. She drifted
in one direction, and he was borne off in another, both
cheering.

Of course when Peter landed he beached his barque [small ship,
actually the Never Bird's nest in this particular case in point] in
a place where the bird would easily find it; but the hat was such a
great success that she abandoned the nest. It drifted about till it
went to pieces, and often Starkey came to the shore of the lagoon,
and with many bitter feelings watched the bird sitting on his hat.
As we shall not see her again, it may be worth mentioning here that
all Never birds now build in that shape of nest, with a broad brim
on which the youngsters take an airing.

Great were the rejoicings when Peter reached the home under the
ground almost as soon as Wendy, who had been carried hither and
thither by the kite. Every boy had adventures to tell; but perhaps
the biggest adventure of all was that they were several hours late
for bed. This so inflated them that they did various dodgy things
to get staying up still longer, such as demanding bandages; but
Wendy, though glorying in having them all home again safe and
sound, was scandalised by the lateness of the hour, and cried, "To
bed, to bed," in a voice that had to be obeyed. Next day, however,
she was awfully tender, and gave out bandages to every one, and
they played till bed-time at limping about and carrying their arms
in slings.




