


Chapter

12
THE CHILDREN ARE CARRIED OFF


The pirate attack had been a complete surprise: a sure proof
that the unscrupulous Hook had conducted it improperly, for to
surprise redskins fairly is beyond the wit of the white man.

By all the unwritten laws of savage warfare it is always the
redskin who attacks, and with the wiliness of his race he does it
just before the dawn, at which time he knows the courage of the
whites to be at its lowest ebb. The white men have in the meantime
made a rude stockade on the summit of yonder undulating ground, at
the foot of which a stream runs, for it is destruction to be too
far from water. There they await the onslaught, the inexperienced
ones clutching their revolvers and treading on twigs, but the old
hands sleeping tranquilly until just before the dawn. Through the
long black night the savage scouts wriggle, snake-like, among the
grass without stirring a blade. The brushwood closes behind them,
as silently as sand into which a mole has dived. Not a sound is to
be heard, save when they give vent to a wonderful imitation of the
lonely call of the coyote. The cry is answered by other braves; and
some of them do it even better than the coyotes, who are not very
good at it. So the chill hours wear on, and the long suspense is
horribly trying to the paleface who has to live through it for the
first time; but to the trained hand those ghastly calls and still
ghastlier silences are but an intimation of how the night is
marching.

That this was the usual procedure was so well known to Hook that
in disregarding it he cannot be excused on the plea of
ignorance.

The Piccaninnies, on their part, trusted implicitly to his
honour, and their whole action of the night stands out in marked
contrast to his. They left nothing undone that was consistent with
the reputation of their tribe. With that alertness of the senses
which is at once the marvel and despair of civilised peoples, they
knew that the pirates were on the island from the moment one of
them trod on a dry stick; and in an incredibly short space of time
the coyote cries began. Every foot of ground between the spot where
Hook had landed his forces and the home under the trees was
stealthily examined by braves wearing their mocassins with the
heels in front. They found only one hillock with a stream at its
base, so that Hook had no choice; here he must establish himself
and wait for just before the dawn. Everything being thus mapped out
with almost diabolical cunning, the main body of the redskins
folded their blankets around them, and in the phlegmatic manner
that is to them, the pearl of manhood squatted above the children's
home, awaiting the cold moment when they should deal pale
death.

Here dreaming, though wide-awake, of the exquisite tortures to
which they were to put him at break of day, those confiding savages
were found by the treacherous Hook. From the accounts afterwards
supplied by such of the scouts as escaped the carnage, he does not
seem even to have paused at the rising ground, though it is certain
that in that grey light he must have seen it: no thought of waiting
to be attacked appears from first to last to have visited his
subtle mind; he would not even hold off till the night was nearly
spent; on he pounded with no policy but to fall to [get into
combat]. What could the bewildered scouts do, masters as they were
of every war-like artifice save this one, but trot helplessly after
him, exposing themselves fatally to view, while they gave pathetic
utterance to the coyote cry.

Around the brave Tiger Lily were a dozen of her stoutest
warriors, and they suddenly saw the perfidious pirates bearing down
upon them. Fell from their eyes then the film through which they
had looked at victory. No more would they torture at the stake. For
them the happy hunting-grounds was now. They knew it; but as their
father's sons they acquitted themselves. Even then they had time to
gather in a phalanx [dense formation] that would have been hard to
break had they risen quickly, but this they were forbidden to do by
the traditions of their race. It is written that the noble savage
must never express surprise in the presence of the white. Thus
terrible as the sudden appearance of the pirates must have been to
them, they remained stationary for a moment, not a muscle moving;
as if the foe had come by invitation. Then, indeed, the tradition
gallantly upheld, they seized their weapons, and the air was torn
with the war-cry; but it was now too late.

It is no part of ours to describe what was a massacre rather
than a fight. Thus perished many of the flower of the Piccaninny
tribe. Not all unavenged did they die, for with Lean Wolf fell Alf
Mason, to disturb the Spanish Main no more, and among others who
bit the dust were Geo. Scourie, Chas. Turley, and the Alsatian
Foggerty. Turley fell to the tomahawk of the terrible Panther, who
ultimately cut a way through the pirates with Tiger Lily and a
small remnant of the tribe.
