


Chapter

15
"HOOK OR ME THIS TIME"


Odd things happen to all of us on our way through life without
our noticing for a time that they have happened. Thus, to take an
instance, we suddenly discover that we have been deaf in one ear
for we don't know how long, but, say, half an hour. Now such an
experience had come that night to Peter. When last we saw him he
was stealing across the island with one finger to his lips and his
dagger at the ready. He had seen the crocodile pass by without
noticing anything peculiar about it, but by and by he remembered
that it had not been ticking. At first he thought this eerie, but
soon concluded rightly that the clock had run down.

Without giving a thought to what might be the feelings of a
fellow-creature thus abruptly deprived of its closest companion,
Peter began to consider how he could turn the catastrophe to his
own use; and he decided to tick, so that wild beasts should believe
he was the crocodile and let him pass unmolested. He ticked
superbly, but with one unforeseen result. The crocodile was among
those who heard the sound, and it followed him, though whether with
the purpose of regaining what it had lost, or merely as a friend
under the belief that it was again ticking itself, will never be
certainly known, for, like slaves to a fixed idea, it was a stupid
beast.

Peter reached the shore without mishap, and went straight on,
his legs encountering the water as if quite unaware that they had
entered a new element. Thus many animals pass from land to water,
but no other human of whom I know. As he swam he had but one
thought: "Hook or me this time." He had ticked so long that he now
went on ticking without knowing that he was doing it. Had he known
he would have stopped, for to board the brig by help of the tick,
though an ingenious idea, had not occurred to him.

On the contrary, he thought he had scaled her side as noiseless
as a mouse; and he was amazed to see the pirates cowering from him,
with Hook in their midst as abject as if he had heard the
crocodile.

The crocodile! No sooner did Peter remember it than he heard the
ticking. At first he thought the sound did come from the crocodile,
and he looked behind him swiftly. They he realised that he was
doing it himself, and in a flash he understood the situation. "How
clever of me!" he thought at once, and signed to the boys not to
burst into applause.

It was at this moment that Ed Teynte the quartermaster emerged
from the forecastle and came along the deck. Now, reader, time what
happened by your watch. Peter struck true and deep. John clapped
his hands on the ill-fated pirate's mouth to stifle the dying
groan. He fell forward. Four boys caught him to prevent the thud.
Peter gave the signal, and the carrion was cast overboard. There
was a splash, and then silence. How long has it taken?

"One!" (Slightly had begun to count.)
