At last he cried, "Cleave him to the brisket!" but without
conviction.

"Down, boys, and at them!" Peter's voice rang out; and in
another moment the clash of arms was resounding through the ship.
Had the pirates kept together it is certain that they would have
won; but the onset came when they were still unstrung, and they ran
hither and thither, striking wildly, each thinking himself the last
survivor of the crew. Man to man they were the stronger; but they
fought on the defensive only, which enabled the boys to hunt in
pairs and choose their quarry. Some of the miscreants leapt into
the sea; others hid in dark recesses, where they were found by
Slightly, who did not fight, but ran about with a lantern which he
flashed in their faces, so that they were half blinded and fell as
an easy prey to the reeking swords of the other boys. There was
little sound to be heard but the clang of weapons, an occasional
screech or splash, and Slightly monotonously
counting—five—six—seven eight—nine—ten—eleven.

I think all were gone when a group of savage boys surrounded
Hook, who seemed to have a charmed life, as he kept them at bay in
that circle of fire. They had done for his dogs, but this man alone
seemed to be a match for them all. Again and again they closed upon
him, and again and again he hewed a clear space. He had lifted up
one boy with his hook, and was using him as a buckler [shield],
when another, who had just passed his sword through Mullins, sprang
into the fray.

"Put up your swords, boys," cried the newcomer, "this man is
mine."

Thus suddenly Hook found himself face to face with Peter. The
others drew back and formed a ring around them.

For long the two enemies looked at one another, Hook shuddering
slightly, and Peter with the strange smile upon his face.

"So, Pan," said Hook at last, "this is all your doing."

"Ay, James Hook," came the stern answer, "it is all my
doing."

"Proud and insolent youth," said Hook, "prepare to meet thy
doom."

"Dark and sinister man," Peter answered, "have at thee."

Without more words they fell to, and for a space there was no
advantage to either blade. Peter was a superb swordsman, and
parried with dazzling rapidity; ever and anon he followed up a
feint with a lunge that got past his foe's defence, but his shorter
reach stood him in ill stead, and he could not drive the steel
home. Hook, scarcely his inferior in brilliancy, but not quite so
nimble in wrist play, forced him back by the weight of his onset,
hoping suddenly to end all with a favourite thrust, taught him long
ago by Barbecue at Rio; but to his astonishment he found this
thrust turned aside again and again. Then he sought to close and
give the quietus with his iron hook, which all this time had been
pawing the air; but Peter doubled under it and, lunging fiercely,
pierced him in the ribs. At the sight of his own blood, whose
peculiar colour, you remember, was offensive to him, the sword fell
from Hook's hand, and he was at Peter's mercy.
