
"But, my dear madam, it is ten days till Thursday week; so that
by telling you what's what, we can save you ten days of
unhappiness."

"Yes, but at what a cost! By depriving the children of ten
minutes of delight."

"Oh, if you look at it in that way!"

"What other way is there in which to look at it?"

You see, the woman had no proper spirit. I had meant to say
extraordinarily nice things about her; but I despise her, and not
one of them will I say now. She does not really need to be told to
have things ready, for they are ready. All the beds are aired, and
she never leaves the house, and observe, the window is open. For
all the use we are to her, we might well go back to the ship.
However, as we are here we may as well stay and look on. That is
all we are, lookers-on. Nobody really wants us. So let us watch and
say jaggy things, in the hope that some of them will hurt.

The only change to be seen in the night-nursery is that between
nine and six the kennel is no longer there. When the children flew
away, Mr. Darling felt in his bones that all the blame was his for
having chained Nana up, and that from first to last she had been
wiser than he. Of course, as we have seen, he was quite a simple
man; indeed he might have passed for a boy again if he had been
able to take his baldness off; but he had also a noble sense of
justice and a lion's courage to do what seemed right to him; and
having thought the matter out with anxious care after the flight of
the children, he went down on all fours and crawled into the
kennel. To all Mrs. Darling's dear invitations to him to come out
he replied sadly but firmly:

"No, my own one, this is the place for me."

In the bitterness of his remorse he swore that he would never
leave the kennel until his children came back. Of course this was a
pity; but whatever Mr. Darling did he had to do in excess,
otherwise he soon gave up doing it. And there never was a more
humble man than the once proud George Darling, as he sat in the
kennel of an evening talking with his wife of their children and
all their pretty ways.

Very touching was his deference to Nana. He would not let her
come into the kennel, but on all other matters he followed her
wishes implicitly.

Every morning the kennel was carried with Mr. Darling in it to a
cab, which conveyed him to his office, and he returned home in the
same way at six. Something of the strength of character of the man
will be seen if we remember how sensitive he was to the opinion of
neighbours: this man whose every movement now attracted surprised
attention. Inwardly he must have suffered torture; but he preserved
a calm exterior even when the young criticised his little home, and
he always lifted his hat courteously to any lady who looked
inside.

