It may have been Quixotic, but it was magnificent. Soon the
inward meaning of it leaked out, and the great heart of the public
was touched. Crowds followed the cab, cheering it lustily; charming
girls scaled it to get his autograph; interviews appeared in the
better class of papers, and society invited him to dinner and
added, "Do come in the kennel."

On that eventful Thursday week, Mrs. Darling was in the
night-nursery awaiting George's return home; a very sad-eyed woman.
Now that we look at her closely and remember the gaiety of her in
the old days, all gone now just because she has lost her babes, I
find I won't be able to say nasty things about her after all. If
she was too fond of her rubbishy children, she couldn't help it.
Look at her in her chair, where she has fallen asleep. The corner
of her mouth, where one looks first, is almost withered up. Her
hand moves restlessly on her breast as if she had a pain there.
Some like Peter best, and some like Wendy best, but I like her
best. Suppose, to make her happy, we whisper to her in her sleep
that the brats are coming back. They are really within two miles of
the window now, and flying strong, but all we need whisper is that
they are on the way. Let's.

It is a pity we did it, for she has started up, calling their
names; and there is no one in the room but Nana.

"O Nana, I dreamt my dear ones had come back."

Nana had filmy eyes, but all she could do was put her paw gently
on her mistress's lap; and they were sitting together thus when the
kennel was brought back. As Mr. Darling puts his head out to kiss
his wife, we see that his face is more worn than of yore, but has a
softer expression.

He gave his hat to Liza, who took it scornfully; for she had no
imagination, and was quite incapable of understanding the motives
of such a man. Outside, the crowd who had accompanied the cab home
were still cheering, and he was naturally not unmoved.

"Listen to them," he said; "it is very gratifying."

"Lots of little boys," sneered Liza.

"There were several adults to-day," he assured her with a faint
flush; but when she tossed her head he had not a word of reproof
for her. Social success had not spoilt him; it had made him
sweeter. For some time he sat with his head out of the kennel,
talking with Mrs. Darling of this success, and pressing her hand
reassuringly when she said she hoped his head would not be turned
by it.

"But if I had been a weak man," he said. "Good heavens, if I had
been a weak man!"

"And, George," she said timidly, "you are as full of remorse as
ever, aren't you?"
