John rubbed his eyes. "Then I shall get up," he said. Of course
he was on the floor already. "Hallo," he said, "I am up!"

Michael was up by this time also, looking as sharp as a knife
with six blades and a saw, but Peter suddenly signed silence. Their
faces assumed the awful craftiness of children listening for sounds
from the grown-up world. All was as still as salt. Then everything
was right. No, stop! Everything was wrong. Nana, who had been
barking distressfully all the evening, was quiet now. It was her
silence they had heard.

"Out with the light! Hide! Quick!" cried John, taking command
for the only time throughout the whole adventure. And thus when
Liza entered, holding Nana, the nursery seemed quite its old self,
very dark, and you would have sworn you heard its three wicked
inmates breathing angelically as they slept. They were really doing
it artfully from behind the window curtains.

Liza was in a bad temper, for she was mixing the Christmas
puddings in the kitchen, and had been drawn from them, with a
raisin still on her cheek, by Nana's absurd suspicions. She thought
the best way of getting a little quiet was to take Nana to the
nursery for a moment, but in custody of course.

"There, you suspicious brute," she said, not sorry that Nana was
in disgrace. "They are perfectly safe, aren't they? Every one of
the little angels sound asleep in bed. Listen to their gentle
breathing."

Here Michael, encouraged by his success, breathed so loudly that
they were nearly detected. Nana knew that kind of breathing, and
she tried to drag herself out of Liza's clutches.

But Liza was dense. "No more of it, Nana," she said sternly,
pulling her out of the room. "I warn you if bark again I shall go
straight for master and missus and bring them home from the party,
and then, oh, won't master whip you, just."

She tied the unhappy dog up again, but do you think Nana ceased
to bark? Bring master and missus home from the party! Why, that was
just what she wanted. Do you think she cared whether she was
whipped so long as her charges were safe? Unfortunately Liza
returned to her puddings, and Nana, seeing that no help would come
from her, strained and strained at the chain until at last she
broke it. In another moment she had burst into the dining-room of
27 and flung up her paws to heaven, her most expressive way of
making a communication. Mr. and Mrs. Darling knew at once that
something terrible was happening in their nursery, and without a
good-bye to their hostess they rushed into the street.

But it was now ten minutes since three scoundrels had been
breathing behind the curtains, and Peter Pan can do a great deal in
ten minutes.

We now return to the nursery.

"It's all right," John announced, emerging from his
hiding-place. "I say, Peter, can you really fly?"
