
It was a singular sight which met our eyes. On the table stood a
dark-lantern with the shutter half open, throwing a brilliant beam
of light upon the iron safe, the door of which was ajar. Beside
this table, on the wooden chair, sat Dr. Grimesby Roylott clad in a
long grey dressing-gown, his bare ankles protruding beneath, and
his feet thrust into red heelless Turkish slippers. Across his lap
lay the short stock with the long lash which we had noticed during
the day. His chin was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a
dreadful, rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling. Round his brow
he had a peculiar yellow band, with brownish speckles, which seemed
to be bound tightly round his head. As we entered he made neither
sound nor motion.

"The band! the speckled band!" whispered Holmes.

I took a step forward. In an instant his strange headgear began
to move, and there reared itself from among his hair the squat
diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent.

"It is a swamp adder!" cried Holmes; "the deadliest snake in
India. He has died within ten seconds of being bitten. Violence
does, in truth, recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls into
the pit which he digs for another. Let us thrust this creature back
into its den, and we can then remove Miss Stoner to some place of
shelter and let the county police know what has happened."

As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead man's
lap, and throwing the noose round the reptile's neck he drew it
from its horrid perch and, carrying it at arm's length, threw it
into the iron safe, which he closed upon it.

Such are the true facts of the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of
Stoke Moran. It is not necessary that I should prolong a narrative
which has already run to too great a length by telling how we broke
the sad news to the terrified girl, how we conveyed her by the
morning train to the care of her good aunt at Harrow, of how the
slow process of official inquiry came to the conclusion that the
doctor met his fate while indiscreetly playing with a dangerous
pet. The little which I had yet to learn of the case was told me by
Sherlock Holmes as we travelled back next day.

"I had," said he, "come to an entirely erroneous conclusion
which shows, my dear Watson, how dangerous it always is to reason
from insufficient data. The presence of the gipsies, and the use of
the word 'band,' which was used by the poor girl, no doubt, to
explain the appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by
the light of her match, were sufficient to put me upon an entirely
wrong scent. I can only claim the merit that I instantly
reconsidered my position when, however, it became clear to me that
whatever danger threatened an occupant of the room could not come
either from the window or the door. My attention was speedily
drawn, as I have already remarked to you, to this ventilator, and
to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed. The discovery that
this was a dummy, and that the bed was clamped to the floor,
instantly gave rise to the suspicion that the rope was there as a
bridge for something passing through the hole and coming to the
bed. The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me, and when I
coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor was furnished with a
supply of creatures from India, I felt that I was probably on the
right track. The idea of using a form of poison which could not
possibly be discovered by any chemical test was just such a one as
would occur to a clever and ruthless man who had had an Eastern
training. The rapidity with which such a poison would take effect
would also, from his point of view, be an advantage. It would be a
sharp-eyed coroner, indeed, who could distinguish the two little
dark punctures which would show where the poison fangs had done
their work. Then I thought of the whistle. Of course he must recall
the snake before the morning light revealed it to the victim. He
had trained it, probably by the use of the milk which we saw, to
return to him when summoned. He would put it through this
ventilator at the hour that he thought best, with the certainty
that it would crawl down the rope and land on the bed. It might or
might not bite the occupant, perhaps she might escape every night
for a week, but sooner or later she must fall a victim.

"I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his
room. An inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in the
habit of standing on it, which of course would be necessary in
order that he should reach the ventilator. The sight of the safe,
the saucer of milk, and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally
dispel any doubts which may have remained. The metallic clang heard
by Miss Stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather hastily
closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant. Having
once made up my mind, you know the steps which I took in order to
put the matter to the proof. I heard the creature hiss as I have no
doubt that you did also, and I instantly lit the light and attacked
it."

"With the result of driving it through the ventilator."

"And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master
at the other side. Some of the blows of my cane came home and
roused its snakish temper, so that it flew upon the first person it
saw. In this way I am no doubt indirectly responsible for Dr.
Grimesby Roylott's death, and I cannot say that it is likely to
weigh very heavily upon my conscience."

