"The man married a woman very much older than himself for her
money," said he, "and he enjoyed the use of the money of the
daughter as long as she lived with them. It was a considerable sum,
for people in their position, and the loss of it would have made a
serious difference. It was worth an effort to preserve it. The
daughter was of a good, amiable disposition, but affectionate and
warm-hearted in her ways, so that it was evident that with her fair
personal advantages, and her little income, she would not be
allowed to remain single long. Now her marriage would mean, of
course, the loss of a hundred a year, so what does her stepfather
do to prevent it? He takes the obvious course of keeping her at
home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of her own
age. But soon he found that that would not answer forever. She
became restive, insisted upon her rights, and finally announced her
positive intention of going to a certain ball. What does her clever
stepfather do then? He conceives an idea more creditable to his
head than to his heart. With the connivance and assistance of his
wife he disguised himself, covered those keen eyes with tinted
glasses, masked the face with a moustache and a pair of bushy
whiskers, sunk that clear voice into an insinuating whisper, and
doubly secure on account of the girl's short sight, he appears as
Mr. Hosmer Angel, and keeps off other lovers by making love
himself."

"It was only a joke at first," groaned our visitor. "We never
thought that she would have been so carried away."

"Very likely not. However that may be, the young lady was very
decidedly carried away, and, having quite made up her mind that her
stepfather was in France, the suspicion of treachery never for an
instant entered her mind. She was flattered by the gentleman's
attentions, and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed
admiration of her mother. Then Mr. Angel began to call, for it was
obvious that the matter should be pushed as far as it would go if a
real effect were to be produced. There were meetings, and an
engagement, which would finally secure the girl's affections from
turning towards anyone else. But the deception could not be kept up
forever. These pretended journeys to France were rather cumbrous.
The thing to do was clearly to bring the business to an end in such
a dramatic manner that it would leave a permanent impression upon
the young lady's mind and prevent her from looking upon any other
suitor for some time to come. Hence those vows of fidelity exacted
upon a Testament, and hence also the allusions to a possibility of
something happening on the very morning of the wedding. James
Windibank wished Miss Sutherland to be so bound to Hosmer Angel,
and so uncertain as to his fate, that for ten years to come, at any
rate, she would not listen to another man. As far as the church
door he brought her, and then, as he could go no farther, he
conveniently vanished away by the old trick of stepping in at one
door of a four-wheeler and out at the other. I think that was the
chain of events, Mr. Windibank!"

Our visitor had recovered something of his assurance while
Holmes had been talking, and he rose from his chair now with a cold
sneer upon his pale face.

"It may be so, or it may not, Mr. Holmes," said he, "but if you
are so very sharp you ought to be sharp enough to know that it is
you who are breaking the law now, and not me. I have done nothing
actionable from the first, but as long as you keep that door locked
you lay yourself open to an action for assault and illegal
constraint."

"The law cannot, as you say, touch you," said Holmes, unlocking
and throwing open the door, "yet there never was a man who deserved
punishment more. If the young lady has a brother or a friend, he
ought to lay a whip across your shoulders. By Jove!" he continued,
flushing up at the sight of the bitter sneer upon the man's face,
"it is not part of my duties to my client, but here's a hunting
crop handy, and I think I shall just treat myself to—" He took two
swift steps to the whip, but before he could grasp it there was a
wild clatter of steps upon the stairs, the heavy hall door banged,
and from the window we could see Mr. James Windibank running at the
top of his speed down the road.

"There's a cold-blooded scoundrel!" said Holmes, laughing, as he
threw himself down into his chair once more. "That fellow will rise
from crime to crime until he does something very bad, and ends on a
gallows. The case has, in some respects, been not entirely devoid
of interest."

"I cannot now entirely see all the steps of your reasoning," I
remarked.

"Well, of course it was obvious from the first that this Mr.
Hosmer Angel must have some strong object for his curious conduct,
and it was equally clear that the only man who really profited by
the incident, as far as we could see, was the stepfather. Then the
fact that the two men were never together, but that the one always
appeared when the other was away, was suggestive. So were the
tinted spectacles and the curious voice, which both hinted at a
disguise, as did the bushy whiskers. My suspicions were all
confirmed by his peculiar action in typewriting his signature,
which, of course, inferred that his handwriting was so familiar to
her that she would recognise even the smallest sample of it. You
see all these isolated facts, together with many minor ones, all
pointed in the same direction."

"And how did you verify them?"

"Having once spotted my man, it was easy to get corroboration. I
knew the firm for which this man worked. Having taken the printed
description. I eliminated everything from it which could be the
result of a disguise—the whiskers, the glasses, the voice, and I
sent it to the firm, with a request that they would inform me
whether it answered to the description of any of their travellers.
I had already noticed the peculiarities of the typewriter, and I
wrote to the man himself at his business address asking him if he
would come here. As I expected, his reply was typewritten and
revealed the same trivial but characteristic defects. The same post
brought me a letter from Westhouse &amp; Marbank, of Fenchurch
Street, to say that the description tallied in every respect with
that of their employé, James Windibank. Voilà tout!"
