
The second distance between the stick and the bottom of the
cliff was five hundred feet.

These measurements finished, Cyrus Harding and the lad returned
to the Chimneys.

The engineer then took a flat stone which he had brought back
from one of his previous excursions, a sort of slate, on which it
was easy to trace figures with a sharp shell. He then proved the
following proportions:—

15:500::10:x

500 x 10 = 5000

5000 / 15 = 333.3

From which it was proved that the granite cliff measured 333
feet in height.

Cyrus Harding then took the instrument which he had made the
evening before, the space between its two legs giving the angular
distance between the star Alpha and the horizon. He measured, very
exactly, the opening of this angle on a circumference which he
divided into 360 equal parts. Now, this angle by adding to it the
twenty-seven degrees which separated Alpha from the antarctic pole,
and by reducing to the level of the sea the height of the cliff on
which the observation had been made, was found to be fifty- three
degrees. These fifty-three degrees being subtracted from ninety
degrees—the distance from the pole to the equator—there remained
thirty- seven degrees. Cyrus Harding concluded, therefore, that
Lincoln Island was situated on the thirty-seventh degree of the
southern latitude, or taking into consideration through the
imperfection of the performance, an error of five degrees, that it
must be situated between the thirty-fifth and the fortieth
parallel.

There was only the longitude to be obtained, and the position of
the island would be determined, The engineer hoped to attempt this
the same day, at twelve o'clock, at which moment the sun would pass
the meridian.

It was decided that Sunday should be spent in a walk, or rather
an exploring expedition, to that side of the island between the
north of the lake and Shark Gulf, and if there was time they would
push their discoveries to the northern side of Cape South Mandible.
They would breakfast on the downs, and not return till evening.

