At half-past eight the little band was following the edge of the
channel. On the other side, on Safety Islet, numerous birds were
gravely strutting. They were divers, easily recognized by their
cry, which much resembles the braying of a donkey. Pencroft only
considered them in an eatable point of view, and learnt with some
satisfaction that their flesh, though blackish, is not bad
food.

Great amphibious creatures could also be seen crawling on the
sand; seals, doubtless, who appeared to have chosen the islet for a
place of refuge. It was impossible to think of those animals in an
alimentary point of view, for their oily flesh is detestable;
however, Cyrus Harding observed them attentively, and without
making known his idea, he announced to his companions that very
soon they would pay a visit to the islet. The beach was strewn with
innumerable shells, some of which would have rejoiced the heart of
a conchologist; there were, among others, the phasianella, the
terebratual, etc. But what would be of more use, was the discovery,
by Neb, at low tide, of a large oysterbed among the rocks, nearly
five miles from the Chimneys.

"Neb will not have lost his day," cried Pencroft, looking at the
spacious oyster-bed.

"It is really a fortunate discovery," said the reporter, "and as
it is said that each oyster produces yearly from fifty to sixty
thousand eggs, we shall have an inexhaustible supply there."

"Only I believe that the oyster is not very nourishing," said
Herbert.

"No," replied Harding. "The oyster contains very little
nitrogen, and if a man lived exclusively on them, he would have to
eat not less than fifteen to sixteen dozen a day."

"Capital!" replied Pencroft. "We might swallow dozens and dozens
without exhausting the bed. Shall we take some for breakfast?"

And without waiting for a reply to this proposal, knowing that
it would be approved of, the sailor and Neb detached a quantity of
the molluscs. They put them in a sort of net of hibiscus fiber,
which Neb had manufactured, and which already contained food; they
then continued to climb the coast between the downs and the
sea.

From time to time Harding consulted his watch, so as to be
prepared in time for the solar observation, which had to be made
exactly at midday.

All that part of the island was very barren as far as the point
which closed Union Bay, and which had received the name of Cape
South Mandible. Nothing could be seen there but sand and shells,
mingled with debris of lava. A few sea-birds frequented this
desolate coast, gulls, great albatrosses, as well as wild duck, for
which Pencroft had a great fancy. He tried to knock some over with
an arrow, but without result, for they seldom perched, and he could
not hit them on the wing.

This led the sailor to repeat to the engineer,—
