Before anything else could be done it was necessary to make the
iron ore, of which the engineer had observed some traces in the
northwest part of the island, fit for use by converting it either
into iron or into steel.

Metals are not generally found in the ground in a pure state.
For the most part they are combined with oxygen or sulphur. Such
was the case with the two specimens which Cyrus Harding had brought
back, one of magnetic iron, not carbonated, the other a pyrite,
also called sulphuret of iron. It was, therefore the first, the
oxide of iron, which they must reduce with coal, that is to say,
get rid of the oxygen, to obtain it in a pure state. This reduction
is made by subjecting the ore with coal to a high temperature,
either by the rapid and easy Catalan method, which has the
advantage of transforming the ore into iron in a single operation,
or by the blast furnace, which first smelts the ore, then changes
it into iron, by carrying away the three to four per cent. of coal,
which is combined with it.

Now Cyrus Harding wanted iron, and he wished to obtain it as
soon as possible. The ore which he had picked up was in itself very
pure and rich. It was the oxydulous iron, which is found in
confused masses of a deep gray color; it gives a black dust,
crystallized in the form of the regular octahedron. Native
lodestones consist of this ore, and iron of the first quality is
made in Europe from that with which Sweden and Norway are so
abundantly supplied. Not far from this vein was the vein of coal
already made use of by the settlers. The ingredients for the
manufacture being close together would greatly facilitate the
treatment of the ore. This is the cause of the wealth of the mines
in Great Britain, where the coal aids the manufacture of the metal
extracted from the same soil at the same time as itself.

"Then, captain," said Pencroft, "we are going to work iron
ore?"

"Yes, my friend," replied the engineer, "and for that—something
which will please you—we must begin by having a seal hunt on the
islet."

"A seal hunt!" cried the sailor, turning towards Gideon Spilett.
"Are seals needed to make iron?"

"Since Cyrus has said so!" replied the reporter.

But the engineer had already left the Chimneys, and Pencroft
prepared for the seal hunt, without having received any other
explanation.

Cyrus Harding, Herbert, Gideon Spilett, Neb, and the sailor were
soon collected on the shore, at a place where the channel left a
ford passable at low tide. The hunters could therefore traverse it
without getting wet higher than the knee.

Harding then put his foot on the islet for the first, and his
companions for the second time.

On their landing some hundreds of penguins looked fearlessly at
them. The hunters, armed with sticks, could have killed them
easily, but they were not guilty of such useless massacre, as it
was important not to frighten the seals, who were lying on the sand
several cable lengths off. They also respected certain
innocent-looking birds, whose wings were reduced to the state of
stumps, spread out like fins, ornamented with feathers of a scaly
appearance. The settlers, therefore, prudently advanced towards the
north point, walking over ground riddled with little holes, which
formed nests for the sea-birds. Towards the extremity of the islet
appeared great black heads floating just above the water, having
exactly the appearance of rocks in motion.
