The sailor and the Negro cleverly performed the operation, and
three hours afterwards Cyrus Harding had at his disposal two seals'
skins, which he intended to use in this state, without subjecting
them to any tanning process.

The settlers waited till the tide was again low, and crossing
the channel they entered the Chimneys.

The skins had then to be stretched on a frame of wood and sewn
by means of fibers so as to preserve the air without allowing too
much to escape. Cyrus Harding had nothing but the two steel blades
from Top's collar, and yet he was so clever, and his companions
aided him with so much intelligence, that three days afterwards the
little colony's stock of tools was augmented by a blowing-machine,
destined to inject the air into the midst of the ore when it should
be subjected to heat—an indispensable condition to the success of
the operation.

On the morning of the 20th of April began the "metallic period,"
as the reporter called it in his notes. The engineer had decided,
as has been said, to operate near the veins both of coal and ore.
Now, according to his observations, these veins were situated at
the foot of the northeast spurs of Mount Franklin, that is to say,
a distance of six miles from their home. It was impossible,
therefore, to return every day to the Chimneys, and it was agreed
that the little colony should camp under a hut of branches, so that
the important operation could be followed night and day.

This settled, they set out in the morning. Neb and Pencroft
dragged the bellows on a hurdle; also a quantity of vegetables and
animals, which they besides could renew on the way.

The road led through Jacamar Wood, which they traversed
obliquely from southeast to northwest, and in the thickest part. It
was necessary to beat a path, which would in the future form the
most direct road to Prospect Heights and Mount Franklin. The trees,
belonging to the species already discovered, were magnificent.
Herbert found some new ones, among others some which Pencroft
called "sham leeks"; for, in spite of their size, they were of the
same liliaceous family as the onion, chive, shallot, or asparagus.
These trees produce ligneous roots which, when cooked, are
excellent; from them, by fermentation, a very agreeable liquor is
made. They therefore made a good store of the roots.

The journey through the wood was long; it lasted the whole day,
and so allowed plenty of time for examining the flora and fauna.
Top, who took special charge of the fauna, ran through the grass
and brushwood, putting up all sorts of game. Herbert and Gideon
Spilett killed two kangaroos with bows and arrows, and also an
animal which strongly resembled both a hedgehog and an ant-eater.
It was like the first because it rolled itself into a ball, and
bristled with spines, and the second because it had sharp claws, a
long slender snout which terminated in a bird's beak, and an
extendible tongue, covered with little thorns which served to hold
the insects.

"And when it is in the pot," asked Pencroft naturally, "what
will it be like?"

"An excellent piece of beef," replied Herbert.

"We will not ask more from it," replied the sailor,

During this excursion they saw several wild boars, which
however, did not offer to attack the little band, and it appeared
as if they would not meet with any dangerous beasts; when, in a
thick part of the wood, the reporter thought he saw, some paces
from him, among the lower branches of a tree, an animal which he
took for a bear, and which he very tranquilly began to draw.
Happily for Gideon Spilett, the animal in question did not belong
to the redoubtable family of the plantigrades. It was only a koala,
better known under the name of the sloth, being about the size of a
large dog, and having stiff hair of a dirty color, the paws armed
with strong claws, which enabled it to climb trees and feed on the
leaves. Having identified the animal, which they did not disturb,
Gideon Spilett erased "bear" from the title of his sketch, putting
koala in its place, and the journey was resumed.
