Gideon Spilett was tall. He was rather more than forty years of
age. Light whiskers bordering on red surrounded his face. His eye
was steady, lively, rapid in its changes. It was the eye of a man
accustomed to take in at a glance all the details of a scene. Well
built, he was inured to all climates, like a bar of steel hardened
in cold water.

For ten years Gideon Spilett had been the reporter of the New
York Herald, which he enriched by his letters and drawings, for he
was as skilful in the use of the pencil as of the pen. When he was
captured, he was in the act of making a description and sketch of
the battle. The last words in his note-book were these: "A Southern
rifleman has just taken aim at me, but—" The Southerner
notwithstanding missed Gideon Spilett, who, with his usual fortune,
came out of this affair without a scratch.

Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett, who did not know each other
except by reputation, had both been carried to Richmond. The
engineer's wounds rapidly healed, and it was during his
convalescence that he made acquaintance with the reporter. The two
men then learned to appreciate each other. Soon their common aim
had but one object, that of escaping, rejoining Grant's army, and
fighting together in the ranks of the Federals.

The two Americans had from the first determined to seize every
chance; but although they were allowed to wander at liberty in the
town, Richmond was so strictly guarded, that escape appeared
impossible. In the meanwhile Captain Harding was rejoined by a
servant who was devoted to him in life and in death. This intrepid
fellow was a Negro born on the engineer's estate, of a slave father
and mother, but to whom Cyrus, who was an Abolitionist from
conviction and heart, had long since given his freedom. The once
slave, though free, would not leave his master. He would have died
for him. He was a man of about thirty, vigorous, active, clever,
intelligent, gentle, and calm, sometimes naive, always merry,
obliging, and honest. His name was Nebuchadnezzar, but he only
answered to the familiar abbreviation of Neb.

When Neb heard that his master had been made prisoner, he left
Massachusetts without hesitating an instant, arrived before
Richmond, and by dint of stratagem and shrewdness, after having
risked his life twenty times over, managed to penetrate into the
besieged town. The pleasure of Harding on seeing his servant, and
the joy of Neb at finding his master, can scarcely be
described.

But though Neb had been able to make his way into Richmond, it
was quite another thing to get out again, for the Northern
prisoners were very strictly watched. Some extraordinary
opportunity was needed to make the attempt with any chance of
success, and this opportunity not only did not present itself, but
was very difficult to find.

Meanwhile Grant continued his energetic operations. The victory
of Petersburg had been very dearly bought. His forces, united to
those of Butler, had as yet been unsuccessful before Richmond, and
nothing gave the prisoners any hope of a speedy deliverance.

The reporter, to whom his tedious captivity did not offer a
single incident worthy of note, could stand it no longer. His
usually active mind was occupied with one sole thought—how he might
get out of Richmond at any cost. Several times had he even made the
attempt, but was stopped by some insurmountable obstacle. However,
the siege continued; and if the prisoners were anxious to escape
and join Grant's army, certain of the besieged were no less anxious
to join the Southern forces. Among them was one Jonathan Forster, a
determined Southerner. The truth was, that if the prisoners of the
Secessionists could not leave the town, neither could the
Secessionists themselves while the Northern army invested it. The
Governor of Richmond for a long time had been unable to communicate
with General Lee, and he very much wished to make known to him the
situation of the town, so as to hasten the march of the army to
their relief. Thus Jonathan Forster accordingly conceived the idea
of rising in a balloon, so as to pass over the besieging lines, and
in that way reach the Secessionist camp.

The Governor authorized the attempt. A balloon was manufactured
and placed at the disposal of Forster, who was to be accompanied by
five other persons. They were furnished with arms in case they
might have to defend themselves when they alighted, and provisions
in the event of their aerial voyage being prolonged.

The departure of the balloon was fixed for the 18th of March. It
should be effected during the night, with a northwest wind of
moderate force, and the aeronauts calculated that they would reach
General Lee's camp in a few hours.

But this northwest wind was not a simple breeze. From the 18th
it was evident that it was changing to a hurricane. The tempest
soon became such that Forster's departure was deferred, for it was
impossible to risk the balloon and those whom it carried in the
midst of the furious elements.
