"I acknowledge," returned Spilett, "that the wound given this
creature is, at least, very strange, and I cannot explain either
how Top was so vigorously cast up out of the water. One could have
thought that a powerful arm hurled him up, and that the same arm
with a dagger killed the dugong!"

"Yes," replied the engineer, who had become thoughtful; "there
is something there that I cannot understand. But do you better
understand either, my dear Spilett, in what way I was saved
myself—how I was drawn from the waves, and carried to the downs?
No! Is it not true? Now, I feel sure that there is some mystery
there, which, doubtless, we shall discover some day. Let us
observe, but do not dwell on these singular incidents before our
companions. Let us keep our remarks to ourselves, and continue our
work."

It will be remembered that the engineer had not as yet been able
to discover the place where the surplus water escaped, but he knew
it must exist somewhere. He was much surprised to see a strong
current at this place. By throwing in some bits of wood he found
that it set towards the southern angle. He followed the current,
and arrived at the south point of the lake.

There was there a sort of depression in the water, as if it was
suddenly lost in some fissure in the ground.

Harding listened; placing his ear to the level of the lake, he
very distinctly heard the noise of a subterranean fall.

"There," said he, rising, "is the discharge of the water; there,
doubtless, by a passage in the granite cliff, it joins the sea,
through cavities which we can use to our profit. Well, I can find
it!"

The engineer cut a long branch, stripped it of its leaves, and
plunging it into the angle between the two banks, he found that
there was a large hole one foot only beneath the surface of the
water. This hole was the opening so long looked for in vain, and
the force of the current was such that the branch was torn from the
engineer's hands and disappeared.

"There is no doubt about it now," repeated Harding. "There is
the outlet, and I will lay it open to view!"

"How?" asked Gideon Spilett.

"By lowering the level of the water of the lake three feet."
"And how will you lower the level?"

"By opening another outlet larger than this."
