"Yes," added the reporter, "we are going to blow up the
island—"

"Blow up the island?" cried Pencroft.

"Part of it, at least," replied Spilett.

"Listen to me, my friends," said the engineer. And he made known
to them the result of his observations.

According to him, a cavity, more or less considerable, must
exist in the mass of granite which supported Prospect Heights, and
he intended to penetrate into it. To do this, the opening through
which the water rushed must first be cleared, and the level lowered
by making a larger outlet. Therefore an explosive substance must be
manufactured, which would make a deep trench in some other part of
the shore. This was what Harding was going to attempt with the
minerals which nature placed at his disposal.

It is useless to say with what enthusiasm all, especially
Pencroft, received this project. To employ great means, open the
granite, create a cascade, that suited the sailor. And he would
just as soon be a chemist as a mason or bootmaker, since the
engineer wanted chemicals. He would be all that they liked, "even a
professor of dancing and deportment," said he to Neb, if that was
ever necessary.

Neb and Pencroft were first of all told to extract the grease
from the dugong, and to keep the flesh, which was destined for
food. Such perfect confidence had they in the engineer, that they
set out directly, without even asking a question. A few minutes
after them, Cyrus Harding, Herbert, and Gideon Spilett, dragging
the hurdle, went towards the vein of coals, where those shistose
pyrites abound which are met with in the most recent transition
soil, and of which Harding had already found a specimen. All the
day being employed in carrying a quantity of these stones to the
Chimneys, by evening they had several tons.

The next day, the 8th of May, the engineer began his
manipulations. These shistose pyrites being composed principally of
coal, flint, alumina, and sulphuret of iron—the latter in excess—it
was necessary to separate the sulphuret of iron, and transform it
into sulphate as rapidly as possible. The sulphate obtained, the
sulphuric acid could then be extracted.

This was the object to be attained. Sulphuric acid is one of the
agents the most frequently employed, and the manufacturing
importance of a nation can be measured by the consumption which is
made of it. This acid would later be of great use to the settlers,
in the manufacturing of candles, tanning skins, etc., but this time
the engineer reserved it for another use.

Cyrus Harding chose, behind the Chimneys, a site where the
ground was perfectly level. On this ground he placed a layer of
branches and chopped wood, on which were piled some pieces of
shistose pyrites, buttressed one against the other, the whole being
covered with a thin layer of pyrites, previously reduced to the
size of a nut.

This done, they set fire to the wood, the heat was communicated
to the shist, which soon kindled, since it contains coal and
sulphur. Then new layers of bruised pyrites were arranged so as to
form an immense heap, the exterior of which was covered with earth
and grass, several air-holes being left, as if it was a stack of
wood which was to be carbonized to make charcoal.
