
"To-morrow, as soon as we have dug a hole for the mine, replied
the engineer."

The next day, the 21st of May, at daybreak, the miners went to
the point which formed the eastern shore of Lake Grant, and was
only five hundred feet from the coast. At this place, the plateau
inclined downwards from the waters, which were only restrained by
their granite case. Therefore, if this case was broken, the water
would escape by the opening and form a stream, which, flowing over
the inclined surface of the plateau, would rush on to the beach.
Consequently, the level of the lake would be greatly lowered, and
the opening where the water escaped would be exposed, which was
their final aim.

Under the engineer's directions, Pencroft, armed with a pickaxe,
which he handled skillfully and vigorously, attacked the granite.
The hole was made on the point of the shore, slanting, so that it
should meet a much lower level than that of the water of the lake.
In this way the explosive force, by scattering the rock, would open
a large place for the water to rush out.

The work took some time, for the engineer, wishing to produce a
great effect, intended to devote not less than seven quarts of
nitro-glycerine to the operation. But Pencroft, relieved by Neb,
did so well, that towards four o'clock in the evening, the mine was
finished.

Now the question of setting fire to the explosive substance was
raised. Generally, nitro-glycerine is ignited by caps of fulminate,
which in bursting cause the explosion. A shock is therefore needed
to produce the explosion, for, simply lighted, this substance would
burn without exploding.

Cyrus Harding could certainly have fabricated a percussion cap.
In default of fulminate, he could easily obtain a substance similar
to guncotton, since he had azotic acid at his disposal. This
substance, pressed in a cartridge, and introduced among the
nitro-glycerine, would burst by means of a fuse, and cause the
explosion.

But Cyrus Harding knew that nitro-glycerine would explode by a
shock. He resolved to employ this means, and try another way, if
this did not succeed.

In fact, the blow of a hammer on a few drops of nitro-glycerine,
spread out on a hard surface, was enough to create an explosion.
But the operator could not be there to give the blow, without
becoming a victim to the operation. Harding, therefore, thought of
suspending a mass of iron, weighing several pounds, by means of a
fiber, to an upright just above the mine. Another long fiber,
previously impregnated with sulphur, was attached to the middle of
the first, by one end, while the other lay on the ground several
feet distant from the mine. The second fiber being set on fire, it
would burn till it reached the first. This catching fire in its
turn, would break, and the mass of iron would fall on the
nitro-glycerine. This apparatus being then arranged, the engineer,
after having sent his companions to a distance, filled the hole, so
that the nitro-glycerine was on a level with the opening; then he
threw a few drops of it on the surface of the rock, above which the
mass of iron was already suspended.

This done, Harding lit the end of the sulphured fiber, and
leaving the place, he returned with his companions to the
Chimneys.

The fiber was intended to burn five and twenty minutes, and, in
fact, five and twenty minutes afterwards a most tremendous
explosion was heard. The island appeared to tremble to its very
foundation. Stones were projected in the air as if by the eruption
of a volcano. The shock produced by the displacing of the air was
such, that the rocks of the Chimneys shook. The settlers, although
they were more than two miles from the mine, were thrown on the
ground.

