
The balloon, inflated on the great square of Richmond, was ready
to depart on the first abatement of the wind, and, as may be
supposed, the impatience among the besieged to see the storm
moderate was very great.

The 18th, the 19th of March passed without any alteration in the
weather. There was even great difficulty in keeping the balloon
fastened to the ground, as the squalls dashed it furiously
about.

The night of the 19th passed, but the next morning the storm
blew with redoubled force. The departure of the balloon was
impossible.

On that day the engineer, Cyrus Harding, was accosted in one of
the streets of Richmond by a person whom he did not in the least
know. This was a sailor named Pencroft, a man of about thirty-five
or forty years of age, strongly built, very sunburnt, and possessed
of a pair of bright sparkling eyes and a remarkably good
physiognomy. Pencroft was an American from the North, who had
sailed all the ocean over, and who had gone through every possible
and almost impossible adventure that a being with two feet and no
wings would encounter. It is needless to say that he was a bold,
dashing fellow, ready to dare anything and was astonished at
nothing. Pencroft at the beginning of the year had gone to Richmond
on business, with a young boy of fifteen from New Jersey, son of a
former captain, an orphan, whom he loved as if he had been his own
child. Not having been able to leave the town before the first
operations of the siege, he found himself shut up, to his great
disgust; but, not accustomed to succumb to difficulties, he
resolved to escape by some means or other. He knew the
engineer-officer by reputation; he knew with what impatience that
determined man chafed under his restraint. On this day he did not,
therefore, hesitate to accost him, saying, without circumlocution,
"Have you had enough of Richmond, captain?"

The engineer looked fixedly at the man who spoke, and who added,
in a low voice,—

"Captain Harding, will you try to escape?"

"When?" asked the engineer quickly, and it was evident that this
question was uttered without consideration, for he had not yet
examined the stranger who addressed him. But after having with a
penetrating eye observed the open face of the sailor, he was
convinced that he had before him an honest man.

"Who are you?" he asked briefly.

Pencroft made himself known.

"Well," replied Harding, "and in what way do you propose to
escape?"

