
Neb and Herbert ran to the edge of the lake, shaded with pines
and other green trees, and soon returned with some branches, which
they made into torches. The torches were lighted with flint and
steel, and Cyrus Harding leading, the settlers ventured into the
dark passage, which the overplus of the lake had formerly
filled.

Contrary to what might have been supposed, the diameter of the
passage increased as the explorers proceeded, so that they very
soon were able to stand upright. The granite, worn by the water for
an infinite time, was very slippery, and falls were to be dreaded.
But the settlers were all attached to each other by a cord, as is
frequently done in ascending mountains. Happily some projections of
the granite, forming regular steps, made the descent less perilous.
Drops, still hanging from the rocks, shone here and there under the
light of the torches, and the explorers guessed that the sides were
clothed with innumerable stalactites. The engineer examined this
black granite. There was not a stratum, not a break in it. The mass
was compact, and of an extremely close grain. The passage dated,
then, from the very origin of the island. It was not the water
which little by little had hollowed it. Pluto and not Neptune had
bored it with his own hand, and on the wall traces of an eruptive
work could be distinguished, which all the washing of the water had
not been able totally to efface.

The settlers descended very slowly. They could not but feel a
certain awe, in this venturing into these unknown depths, for the
first time visited by human beings. They did not speak, but they
thought; and the thought came to more than one, that some polypus
or other gigantic cephalopod might inhabit the interior cavities,
which were in communication with the sea. However, Top kept at the
head of the little band, and they could rely on the sagacity of the
dog, who would not fail to give the alarm if there was any need for
it.

After having descended about a hundred feet, following a winding
road, Harding who was walking on before, stopped, and his
companions came up with him. The place where they had halted was
wider, so as to form a cavern of moderate dimensions. Drops of
water fell from the vault, but that did not prove that they oozed
through the rock. They were simply the last traces left by the
torrent which had so long thundered through this cavity, and the
air there was pure though slightly damp, but producing no mephitic
exhalation.

"Well, my dear Cyrus," said Gideon Spilett, "here is a very
secure retreat, well hid in the depths of the rock, but it is,
however, uninhabitable."

"Why uninhabitable?" asked the sailor.

"Because it is too small and too dark."

"Couldn't we enlarge it, hollow it out, make openings to let in
light and air?" replied Pencroft, who now thought nothing
impossible.

"Let us go on with our exploration," said Cyrus Harding.
"Perhaps lower down, nature will have spared us this labor."

"We have only gone a third of the way," observed Herbert.

