"Here is our dwelling," said Cyrus Harding.

"But it was occupied by some creature," replied Gideon Spilett,
whose curiosity was not yet satisfied.

"Well, the creature, amphibious or otherwise, has made off
through this opening," replied the engineer, "and has left the
place for us."

"Never mind," added the sailor, "I should like very much to be
Top just for a quarter of an hour, for he doesn't bark for
nothing!"

Cyrus Harding looked at his dog, and those of his companions who
were near him might have heard him murmur these words,—

"Yes, I believe that Top knows more than we do about a great
many things."

However, the wishes of the settlers were for the most part
satisfied. Chance, aided by the marvelous sagacity of their leader,
had done them great service. They had now at their disposal a vast
cavern, the size of which could not be properly calculated by the
feeble light of their torches, but it would certainly be easy to
divide it into rooms, by means of brick partitions, or to use it,
if not as a house, at least as a spacious apartment. The water
which had left it could not return. The place was free.

Two difficulties remained; firstly, the possibility of lighting
this excavation in the midst of solid rock; secondly, the necessity
of rendering the means of access more easy. It was useless to think
of lighting it from above, because of the enormous thickness of the
granite which composed the ceiling; but perhaps the outer wall next
the sea might be pierced. Cyrus Harding, during the descent, had
roughly calculated its obliqueness, and consequently the length of
the passage, and was therefore led to believe that the outer wall
could not be very thick. If light was thus obtained, so would a
means of access, for it would be as easy to pierce a door as
windows, and to establish an exterior ladder.

Harding made known his ideas to his companions.

"Then, captain, let us set to work!" replied Pencroft. "I have
my pickaxe, and I shall soon make my way through this wall. Where
shall I strike?"

"Here," replied the engineer, showing the sturdy sailor a
considerable recess in the side, which would much diminish the
thickness.
