
"But," as the sailor said, "they quite took the wind out of the
sails of the Robinsons, for whom everything was done by a
miracle."

In fact, they were energetic; an energetic man will succeed
where an indolent one would vegetate and inevitably perish.

Herbert distinguished himself in these works. He was intelligent
and active; understanding quickly, he performed well; and Cyrus
Harding became more and more attached to the boy. Herbert had a
lively and reverent love for the engineer. Pencroft saw the close
sympathy which existed between the two, but he was not in the least
jealous. Neb was Neb: he was what he would be always, courage,
zeal, devotion, self-denial personified. He had the same faith in
his master that Pencroft had, but he showed it less vehemently.
When the sailor was enthusiastic, Neb always looked as if he would
say, "Nothing could be more natural." Pencroft and he were great
friends.

As to Gideon Spilett, he took part in the common work, and was
not less skilful in it than his companions, which always rather
astonished the sailor. A "journalist," clever, not only in
understanding, but in performing everything.

The ladder was finally fixed on the 28th of May. There were not
less than a hundred rounds in this perpendicular height of eighty
feet. Harding had been able, fortunately, to divide it in two
parts, profiting by an overhanging of the cliff which made a
projection forty feet above the ground. This projection, carefully
leveled by the pickaxe, made a sort of platform, to which they
fixed the first ladder, of which the oscillation was thus
diminished one-half, and a rope permitted it to be raised to the
level of Granite House. As to the second ladder, it was secured
both at its lower part, which rested on the projection, and at its
upper end, which was fastened to the door. In short the ascent had
been made much easier. Besides, Cyrus Harding hoped later to
establish an hydraulic apparatus, which would avoid all fatigue and
loss of time, for the inhabitants of Granite House.

The settlers soon became habituated to the use of this ladder.
They were light and active, and Pencroft, as a sailor, accustomed
to run up the masts and shrouds, was able to give them lessons. But
it was also necessary to give them to Top. The poor dog, with his
four paws, was not formed for this sort of exercise. But Pencroft
was such a zealous master, that Top ended by properly performing
his ascents, and soon mounted the ladder as readily as his brethren
in the circus. It need not be said that the sailor was proud of his
pupil. However, more than once Pencroft hoisted him on his back,
which Top never complained of.

It must be mentioned here, that during these works, which were
actively conducted, for the bad season was approaching, the
alimentary question was not neglected. Every day, the reporter and
Herbert, who had been voted purveyors to the colony, devoted some
hours to the chase. As yet, they only hunted in Jacamar Wood, on
the left of the river, because, for want of a bridge or boat, the
Mercy had not yet been crossed. All the immense woods, to which the
name of the Forests of the Far West had been given, were not
explored. They reserved this important excursion for the first fine
days of the next spring. But Jacamar Wood was full of game;
kangaroos and boars abounded, and the hunters iron-tipped spears
and bows and arrows did wonders. Besides, Herbert discovered
towards the southwest point of the lagoon a natural warren, a
slightly damp meadow, covered with willows and aromatic herbs which
scented the air, such as thyme, basil, savory, all the
sweet-scented species of the labiated plants, which the rabbits
appeared to be particularly fond of.

On the reporter observing that since the table was spread for
the rabbits, it was strange that the rabbits themselves should be
wanting, the two sportsmen carefully explored the warren. At any
rate, it produced an abundance of useful plants, and a naturalist
would have had a good opportunity of studying many specimens of the
vegetable kingdom. Herbert gathered several shoots of the basil,
rosemary, balm, betony, etc., which possess different medicinal
properties, some pectoral, astringent, febrifuge, others
anti-spasmodic, or anti-rheumatic. When, afterwards, Pencroft asked
the use of this collection of herbs,—

"For medicine," replied the lad, "to treat us when we are
ill."

"Why should we be ill, since there are no doctors in the
island?" asked Pencroft quite seriously.

