


Chapter

21

&#160;


From this time Pencroft did not let a single day pass without
going to visit what he gravely called his "corn-field." And woe to
the insects which dared to venture there! No mercy was shown
them.

Towards the end of the month of June, after incessant rain, the
weather became decidedly colder, and on the 29th a Fahrenheit
thermometer would certainly have announced only twenty degrees
above zero, that is considerably below the freezing-point. The next
day, the 30th of June, the day which corresponds to the 31st of
December in the northern year, was a Friday. Neb remarked that the
year finished on a bad day, but Pencroft replied that naturally the
next would begin on a good one, which was better.

At any rate it commenced by very severe cold. Ice accumulated at
the mouth of the Mercy, and it was not long before the whole
expanse of the lake was frozen.

The settlers had frequently been obliged to renew their store of
wood. Pencroft also had wisely not waited till the river was
frozen, but had brought enormous rafts of wood to their
destination. The current was an indefatigable moving power, and it
was employed in conveying the floating wood to the moment when the
frost enchained it. To the fuel which was so abundantly supplied by
the forest, they added several cartloads of coal, which had to be
brought from the foot of the spurs of Mount Franklin. The powerful
heat of the coal was greatly appreciated in the low temperature,
which on the 4th of July fell to eight degrees of Fahrenheit, that
is, thirteen degrees below zero. A second fireplace had been
established in the dining-room, where they all worked together at
their different avocations. During this period of cold, Cyrus
Harding had great cause to congratulate himself on having brought
to Granite House the little stream of water from Lake Grant. Taken
below the frozen surface, and conducted through the passage, it
preserved its fluidity, and arrived at an interior reservoir which
had been hollowed out at the back part of the storeroom, while the
overflow ran through the well to the sea.

About this time, the weather being extremely dry, the colonists,
clothed as warmly as possible, resolved to devote a day to the
exploration of that part of the island between the Mercy and Claw
Cape. It was a wide extent of marshy land, and they would probably
find good sport, for water-birds ought to swarm there.

They reckoned that it would be about eight or nine miles to go
there, and as much to return, so that the whole of the day would be
occupied. As an unknown part of the island was about to be
explored, the whole colony took part in the expedition.
Accordingly, on the 5th of July, at six o'clock in the morning,
when day had scarcely broken, Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett,
Herbert, Neb, and Pencroft, armed with spears, snares, bows and
arrows, and provided with provisions, left Granite House, preceded
by Top, who bounded before them.

