According to the sailor, any animal, whatever it was, would be a
lawful prize, and the rodents or carnivora which might get into the
new snares would be well received at Granite House.

The traps were besides extremely simple; being pits dug in the
ground, a platform of branches and grass above, which concealed the
opening, and at the bottom some bait, the scent of which would
attract animals. It must be mentioned also, that they had not been
dug at random, but at certain places where numerous footprints
showed that quadrupeds frequented the ground. They were visited
every day, and at three different times, during the first days,
specimens of those Antarctic foxes which they had already seen on
the right bank of the Mercy were found in them.

"Why, there are nothing but foxes in this country!" cried
Pencroft, when for the third time he drew one of the animals out of
the pit. Looking at it in great disgust, he added, "beasts which
are good for nothing!"

"Yes," said Gideon Spilett, "they are good for something!"

"And what is that?"

"To make bait to attract other creatures!"

The reporter was right, and the traps were henceforward baited
with the foxes carcasses.

The sailor had also made snares from the long tough fibers of a
certain plant, and they were even more successful than the traps.
Rarely a day passed without some rabbits from the warren being
caught. It was always rabbit, but Neb knew how to vary his sauces
and the settlers did not think of complaining.

However, once or twice in the second week of August, the traps
supplied the hunters with other animals more useful than foxes,
namely, several of those small wild boars which had already been
seen to the north of the lake. Pencroft had no need to ask if these
beasts were eatable. He could see that by their resemblance to the
pig of America and Europe.

"But these are not pigs," said Herbert to him, "I warn you of
that, Pencroft."

"My boy," replied the sailor, bending over the trap and drawing
out one of these representatives of the family of sus by the little
appendage which served it as a tail. "Let me believe that these are
pigs."
