Besides, there was no way of stopping it, if they had wished to
do so.

How grateful the inhabitants of Granite House then were to
Heaven for having prepared for them this solid and immovable
retreat! Cyrus Harding had also his legitimate share of thanks, but
after all, it was Nature who had hollowed out this vast cavern, and
he had only discovered it. There all were in safety, and the
tempest could not reach them. If they had constructed a house of
bricks and wood on Prospect Heights, it certainly would not have
resisted the fury of this storm. As to the Chimneys, it must have
been absolutely uninhabitable, for the sea, passing over the islet,
would beat furiously against it. But here, in Granite House, in the
middle of a solid mass, over which neither the sea nor air had any
influence, there was nothing to fear.

During these days of seclusion the settlers did not remain
inactive.

There was no want of wood, cut up into planks, in the storeroom,
and little by little they completed their furnishing; constructing
the most solid of tables and chairs, for material was not spared.
Neb and Pencroft were very proud of this rather heavy furniture,
which they would not have changed on any account.

Then the carpenters became basket-makers, and they did not
succeed badly in this new manufacture. At the point of the lake
which projected to the north, they had discovered an osier-bed in
which grew a large number of purple osiers. Before the rainy
season, Pencroft and Herbert had cut down these useful shrubs, and
their branches, well prepared, could now be effectively employed.
The first attempts were somewhat crude, but in consequence of the
cleverness and intelligence of the workmen, by consulting, and
recalling the models which they had seen, and by emulating each
other, the possessions of the colony were soon increased by several
baskets of different sizes. The storeroom was provided with them,
and in special baskets Neb placed his collection of rhizomes,
stone-pine almonds, etc.

During the last week of the month of August the weather
moderated again. The temperature fell a little, and the tempest
abated. The colonists sallied out directly. There was certainly two
feet of snow on the shore, but they were able to walk without much
difficulty on the hardened surface. Cyrus Harding and his
companions climbed Prospect Heights.

What a change! The woods, which they had left green, especially
in the part at which the firs predominated, had disappeared under a
uniform color. All was white, from the summit of Mount Franklin to
the shore, the forests, the plains, the lake, the river. The waters
of the Mercy flowed under a roof of ice, which, at each rising and
ebbing of the tide, broke up with loud crashes. Numerous birds
fluttered over the frozen surface of the lake. Ducks and snipe,
teal and guillemots were assembled in thousands. The rocks among
which the cascade flowed were bristling with icicles. One might
have said that the water escaped by a monstrous gargoyle, shaped
with all the imagination of an artist of the Renaissance. As to the
damage caused by the storm in the forest, that could not as yet be
ascertained; they would have to wait till the snowy covering was
dissipated.

Gideon Spilett, Pencroft, and Herbert did not miss this
opportunity of going to visit their traps. They did not find them
easily, under the snow with which they were covered. They had also
to be careful not to fall into one or other of them, which would
have been both dangerous and humiliating; to be taken in their own
snares! But happily they avoided this unpleasantness, and found
their traps perfectly intact. No animal had fallen into them, and
yet the footprints in the neighborhood were very numerous, among
others, certain very clear marks of claws. Herbert did not hesitate
to affirm that some animal of the feline species had passed there,
which justified the engineer's opinion that dangerous beasts
existed in Lincoln Island. These animals doubtless generally lived
in the forests of the Far West, but pressed by hunger, they had
ventured as far as Prospect Heights. Perhaps they had smelled out
the inhabitants of Granite House. "Now, what are these feline
creatures?" asked Pencroft. "They are tigers," replied Herbert. "I
thought those beasts were only found in hot countries?"

"On the new continent," replied the lad, "they are found from
Mexico to the Pampas of Buenos Aires. Now, as Lincoln Island is
nearly under the same latitude as the provinces of La Plata, it is
not surprising that tigers are to be met with in it."

"Well, we must look out for them," replied Pencroft.

However, the snow soon disappeared, quickly dissolving under the
influence of the rising temperature. Rain fell, and the sheet of
white soon vanished. Notwithstanding the bad weather, the settlers
renewed their stores of different things, stone-pine almonds,
rhizomes, syrup from the maple-tree, for the vegetable part;
rabbits from the warren, agouties, and kangaroos for the animal
part. This necessitated several excursions into the forest, and
they found that a great number of trees had been blown down by the
last hurricane. Pencroft and Neb also pushed with the cart as far
as the vein of coal, and brought back several tons of fuel. They
saw in passing that the pottery kiln had been severely damaged by
the wind, at least six feet of it having been blown off.
