After boiling for several hours on a hot fire, which did as much
good to the operators as the substance operated upon, the latter
was transformed into a thick syrup. This syrup was poured into clay
molds, previously fabricated in the kitchen stove, and to which
they had given various shapes. The next day this syrup had become
cold, and formed cakes and tablets. This was sugar of rather a
reddish color, but nearly transparent and of a delicious taste.

The cold continued to the middle of September, and the prisoners
in Granite House began to find their captivity rather tedious.
Nearly every day they attempted sorties which they could not
prolong. They constantly worked at the improvement of their
dwelling. They talked while working. Harding instructed his
companions in many things, principally explaining to them the
practical applications of science. The colonists had no library at
their disposal; but the engineer was a book which was always at
hand, always open at the page which one wanted, a book which
answered all their questions, and which they often consulted. The
time thus passed away pleasantly, these brave men not appearing to
have any fears for the future.

However, all were anxious to see, if not the fine season, at
least the cessation of the insupportable cold. If only they had
been clothed in a way to meet it, how many excursions they would
have attempted, either to the downs or to Tadorn's Fens! Game would
have been easily approached, and the chase would certainly have
been most productive. But Cyrus Harding considered it of importance
that no one should injure his health, for he had need of all his
hands, and his advice was followed.

But it must be said, that the one who was most impatient of this
imprisonment, after Pencroft perhaps, was Top. The faithful dog
found Granite House very narrow. He ran backwards and forwards from
one room to another, showing in his way how weary he was of being
shut up. Harding often remarked that when he approached the dark
well which communicated with the sea, and of which the orifice
opened at the back of the storeroom, Top uttered singular
growlings. He ran round and round this hole, which had been covered
with a wooden lid. Sometimes even he tried to put his paws under
the lid, as if he wished to raise it. He then yelped in a peculiar
way, which showed at once anger and uneasiness.

The engineer observed this maneuver several times.

What could there be in this abyss to make such an impression on
the intelligent animal? The well led to the sea, that was certain.
Could narrow passages spread from it through the foundations of the
island? Did some marine monster come from time to time, to breathe
at the bottom of this well? The engineer did not know what to
think, and could not refrain from dreaming of many strange
improbabilities. Accustomed to go far into the regions of
scientific reality, he would not allow himself to be drawn into the
regions of the strange and almost of the supernatural; but yet how
to explain why Top, one of those sensible dogs who never waste
their time in barking at the moon, should persist in trying with
scent and hearing to fathom this abyss, if there was nothing there
to cause his uneasiness? Top's conduct puzzled Cyrus Harding even
more than he cared to acknowledge to himself.

At all events, the engineer only communicated his impressions to
Gideon Spilett, for he thought it useless to explain to his
companions the suspicions which arose from what perhaps was only
Top's fancy.

At last the cold ceased. There had been rain, squalls mingled
with snow, hailstorms, gusts of wind, but these inclemencies did
not last. The ice melted, the snow disappeared; the shore, the
plateau, the banks of the Mercy, the forest, again became
practicable. This return of spring delighted the tenants of Granite
House, and they soon only passed it in the hours necessary for
eating and sleeping.

They hunted much in the second part of September, which led
Pencroft to again entreat for the firearms, which he asserted had
been promised by Cyrus Harding. The latter, knowing well that
without special tools it would be nearly impossible for him to
manufacture a gun which would be of any use, still drew back and
put off the operation to some future time, observing in his usual
dry way, that Herbert and Spilett had become very skilful archers,
so that many sorts of excellent animals, agouties, kangaroos,
capybaras, pigeons, bustards, wild ducks, snipes, in short, game
both with fur and feathers, fell victims to their arrows, and that,
consequently, they could wait. But the obstinate sailor would
listen to nothing of this, and he would give the engineer no peace
till he promised to satisfy his desire. Gideon Spilett, however,
supported Pencroft.

"If, which may be doubted," said he, "the island is inhabited by
wild beasts, we must think how to fight with and exterminate them.
A time may come when this will be our first duty."

But at this period, it was not the question of firearms which
occupied Harding, but that of clothes. Those which the settlers
wore had passed this winter, but they would not last until next
winter. Skins of carnivora or the wool of ruminants must be
procured at any price, and since there were plenty of musmons, it
was agreed to consult on the means of forming a flock which might
be brought up for the use of the colony. An enclosure for the
domestic animals, a poultry-yard for the birds, in a word to
establish a sort of farm in the island, such were the two important
projects for the fine season.
