"What?" asked Neb, who overheard him.

"Nothing!"

The covering of zinc was torn off and thrown back over the sides
of the chest, and by degrees numerous articles of very varied
character were produced and strewn about on the sand. At each new
object Pencroft uttered fresh hurrahs, Herbert clapped his hands,
and Neb danced up and down. There were books which made Herbert
wild with joy, and cooking utensils which Neb covered with
kisses!

In short, the colonists had reason to be extremely satisfied,
for this chest contained tools, weapons, instruments, clothes,
books; and this is the exact list of them as stated in Gideon
Spilett's note-book:

—Tools:—3 knives with several blades, 2 woodmen's axes, 2
carpenter's hatchets, 3 planes, 2 adzes, 1 twibil or mattock, 6
chisels, 2 files, 3 hammers, 3 gimlets, 2 augers, 10 bags of nails
and screws, 3 saws of different sizes, 2 boxes of needles.

Weapons:—2 flint-lock guns, 2 for percussion caps, 2
breach-loader carbines, 5 boarding cutlasses, 4 sabers, 2 barrels
of powder, each containing twenty-five pounds; 12 boxes of
percussion caps.

Instruments:—1 sextant, 1 double opera-glass, 1 telescope, 1 box
of mathematical instruments, 1 mariner's compass, 1 Fahrenheit
thermometer, 1 aneroid barometer, 1 box containing a photographic
apparatus, object-glass, plates, chemicals, etc.

Clothes:-2 dozen shirts of a peculiar material resembling wool,
but evidently of a vegetable origin; 3 dozen stockings of the same
material.

Utensils:-1 iron pot, 6 copper saucepans, 3 iron dishes, 10
metal plates, 2 kettles, 1 portable stove, 6 table-knives,

Books:-1 Bible, 1 atlas, 1 dictionary of the different
Polynesian idioms, 1 dictionary of natural science, in six volumes;
3 reams of white paper, 2 books with blank pages.

"It must be allowed," said the reporter, after the inventory had
been made, "that the owner of this chest was a practical man!
Tools, weapons, instruments, clothes, utensils, books—nothing is
wanting! It might really be said that he expected to be wrecked,
and had prepared for it beforehand."
