As to the dictionaries of natural science and Polynesian idioms,
both were English; but they neither bore the name of the publisher
nor the date of publication.

The same with the Bible printed in English, in quarto,
remarkable from a typographic point of view, and which appeared to
have been often used.

The atlas was a magnificent work, comprising maps of every
country in the world, and several planispheres arranged upon
Mercator's projection, and of which the nomenclature was in
French—but which also bore neither date nor name of publisher.

There was nothing, therefore, on these different articles by
which they could be traced, and nothing consequently of a nature to
show the nationality of the vessel which must have recently passed
these shores.

But, wherever the chest might have come from, it was a treasure
to the settlers on Lincoln Island. Till then, by making use of the
productions of nature, they had created everything for themselves,
and, thanks to their intelligence, they had managed without
difficulty. But did it not appear as if Providence had wished to
reward them by sending them these productions of human industry?
Their thanks rose unanimously to Heaven.

However, one of them was not quite satisfied: it was Pencroft.
It appeared that the chest did not contain something which he
evidently held in great esteem, for in proportion as they
approached the bottom of the box, his hurrahs diminished in
heartiness, and, the inventory finished, he was heard to mutter
these words:—"That's all very fine, but you can see that there is
nothing for me in that box!"

This led Neb to say,—

"Why, friend Pencroft, what more do you expect?"

"Half a pound of tobacco," replied Pencroft seriously, "and
nothing would have been wanting to complete my happiness!"

No one could help laughing at this speech of the sailor's.

But the result of this discovery of the chest was, that it was
now more than ever necessary to explore the island thoroughly. It
was therefore agreed that the next morning at break of day, they
should set out, by ascending the Mercy so as to reach the western
shore. If any castaways had landed on the coast, it was to be
feared they were without resources, and it was therefore the more
necessary to carry help to them without delay.
