
Was this barren spot the desolate refuge of sea-birds, strewn
with stones and destitute of vegetation, attached to a more
important archipelago? It was impossible to say. When the voyagers
from their car saw the land through the mist, they had not been
able to reconnoiter it sufficiently. However, Pencroft, accustomed
with his sailor eyes to piece through the gloom, was almost certain
that he could clearly distinguish in the west confused masses which
indicated an elevated coast. But they could not in the dark
determine whether it was a single island, or connected with others.
They could not leave it either, as the sea surrounded them; they
must therefore put off till the next day their search for the
engineer, from whom, alas! not a single cry had reached them to
show that he was still in existence.

"The silence of our friend proves nothing," said the reporter.
"Perhaps he has fainted or is wounded, and unable to reply
directly, so we will not despair."

The reporter then proposed to light a fire on a point of the
islet, which would serve as a signal to the engineer. But they
searched in vain for wood or dry brambles; nothing but sand and
stones were to be found. The grief of Neb and his companions, who
were all strongly attached to the intrepid Harding, can be better
pictured than described. It was too evident that they were
powerless to help him. They must wait with what patience they could
for daylight. Either the engineer had been able to save himself,
and had already found a refuge on some point of the coast, or he
was lost for ever! The long and painful hours passed by. The cold
was intense. The castaways suffered cruelly, but they scarcely
perceived it. They did not even think of taking a minute's rest.
Forgetting everything but their chief, hoping or wishing to hope
on, they continued to walk up and down on this sterile spot, always
returning to its northern point, where they could approach nearest
to the scene of the catastrophe. They listened, they called, and
then uniting their voices, they endeavored to raise even a louder
shout than before, which would be transmitted to a great distance.
The wind had now fallen almost to a calm, and the noise of the sea
began also to subside. One of Neb's shouts even appeared to produce
an echo. Herbert directed Pencroft's attention to it, adding, "That
proves that there is a coast to the west, at no great distance."
The sailor nodded; besides, his eyes could not deceive him. If he
had discovered land, however indistinct it might appear, land was
sure to be there. But that distant echo was the only response
produced by Neb's shouts, while a heavy gloom hung over all the
part east of the island.

Meanwhile, the sky was clearing little by little. Towards
midnight the stars shone out, and if the engineer had been there
with his companions he would have remarked that these stars did not
belong to the Northern Hemisphere. The Polar Star was not visible,
the constellations were not those which they had been accustomed to
see in the United States; the Southern Cross glittered brightly in
the sky.

The night passed away. Towards five o'clock in the morning of
the 25th of March, the sky began to lighten; the horizon still
remained dark, but with daybreak a thick mist rose from the sea, so
that the eye could scarcely penetrate beyond twenty feet or so from
where they stood. At length the fog gradually unrolled itself in
great heavily moving waves.

It was unfortunate, however, that the castaways could
distinguish nothing around them. While the gaze of the reporter and
Neb were cast upon the ocean, the sailor and Herbert looked eagerly
for the coast in the west. But not a speck of land was visible.
"Never mind," said Pencroft, "though I do not see the land, I feel
it… it is there… there… as sure as the fact that we are no longer
at Richmond." But the fog was not long in rising. it was only a
fine-weather mist. A hot sun soon penetrated to the surface of the
island. About half-past six, three-quarters of an hour after
sunrise, the mist became more transparent. It grew thicker above,
but cleared away below. Soon the isle appeared as if it had
descended from a cloud, then the sea showed itself around them,
spreading far away towards the east, but bounded on the west by an
abrupt and precipitous coast.

Yes! the land was there. Their safety was at least provisionally
insured. The islet and the coast were separated by a channel about
half a mile in breadth, through which rushed an extremely rapid
current.

However, one of the castaways, following the impulse of his
heart, immediately threw himself into the current, without
consulting his companions, without saying a single word. It was
Neb. He was in haste to be on the other side, and to climb towards
the north. It had been impossible to hold him back. Pencroft called
him in vain. The reporter prepared to follow him, but Pencroft
stopped him. "Do you want to cross the channel?" he asked. "Yes,"
replied Spilett. "All right!" said the seaman; "wait a bit; Neb is
well able to carry help to his master. If we venture into the
channel, we risk being carried into the open sea by the current,
which is running very strong; but, if I'm not wrong, it is ebbing.
See, the tide is going down over the sand. Let us have patience,
and at low water it is possible we may find a fordable passage."
"You are right," replied the reporter, "we will not separate more
than we can help."

During this time Neb was struggling vigorously against the
current. He was crossing in an oblique direction. His black
shoulders could be seen emerging at each stroke. He was carried
down very quickly, but he also made way towards the shore. It took
more than half an hour to cross from the islet to the land, and he
reached the shore several hundred feet from the place which was
opposite to the point from which he had started.

Landing at the foot of a high wall of granite, he shook himself
vigorously; and then, setting off running, soon disappeared behind
a rocky point, which projected to nearly the height of the northern
extremity of the islet.

