It was indeed a jacamar, of which the plumage shines with a
metallic luster. A shot brought it to the ground, and Top carried
it to the canoe. At the same time half a dozen lories were brought
down. The lory is of the size of a pigeon, the plumage dashed with
green, part of the wings crimson, and its crest bordered with
white. To the young boy belonged the honor of this shot, and he was
proud enough of it. Lories are better food than the jacamar, the
flesh of which is rather tough, but it was difficult to persuade
Pencroft that he had not killed the king of eatable birds. It was
ten o'clock in the morning when the canoe reached a second angle of
the Mercy, nearly five miles from its mouth. Here a halt was made
for breakfast under the shade of some splendid trees. The river
still measured from sixty to seventy feet in breadth, and its bed
from five to six feet in depth. The engineer had observed that it
was increased by numerous affluents, but they were unnavigable,
being simply little streams. As to the forest, including Jacamar
Wood, as well as the forests of the Far West, it extended as far as
the eye could reach. In no place, either in the depths of the
forests or under the trees on the banks of the Mercy, was the
presence of man revealed. The explorers could not discover one
suspicious trace. It was evident that the woodman's axe had never
touched these trees, that the pioneer's knife had never severed the
creepers hanging from one trunk to another in the midst of tangled
brushwood and long grass. If castaways had landed on the island,
they could not have yet quitted the shore, and it was not in the
woods that the survivors of the supposed shipwreck should be
sought.

The engineer therefore manifested some impatience to reach the
western coast of Lincoln Island, which was at least five miles
distant according to his estimation.

The voyage was continued, and as the Mercy appeared to flow not
towards the shore, but rather towards Mount Franklin, it was
decided that they should use the boat as long as there was enough
water under its keel to float it. It was both fatigue spared and
time gained, for they would have been obliged to cut a path through
the thick wood with their axes. But soon the flow completely failed
them, either the tide was going down, and it was about the hour, or
it could no longer be felt at this distance from the mouth of the
Mercy. They had therefore to make use of the oars. Herbert and Neb
each took one, and Pencroft took the scull. The forest soon became
less dense, the trees grew further apart and often quite isolated.
But the further they were from each other the more magnificent they
appeared, profiting, as they did, by the free, pure air which
circulated around them.

What splendid specimens of the flora of this latitude! Certainly
their presence would have been enough for a botanist to name
without hesitation the parallel which traversed Lincoln Island.

"Eucalypti!" cried Herbert.

They were, in fact, those splendid trees, the giants of the
extratropical zone, the congeners of the Australian and New Zealand
eucalyptus, both situated under the same latitude as Lincoln
Island. Some rose to a height of two hundred feet. Their trunks at
the base measured twenty feet in circumference, and their bark was
covered by a network of farrows containing a red, sweet-smelling
gum. Nothing is more wonderful or more singular than those enormous
specimens of the order of the myrtaceae, with their leaves placed
vertically and not horizontally, so that an edge and not a surface
looks upwards, the effect being that the sun's rays penetrate more
freely among the trees.

The ground at the foot of the eucalypti was carpeted with grass,
and from the bushes escaped flights of little birds, which
glittered in the sunlight like winged rubies.

"These are something like trees!" cried Neb; "but are they good
for anything?"

"Pooh!" replied Pencroft. "Of course there are vegetable giants
as well as human giants, and they are no good, except to show
themselves at fairs!"

"I think that you are mistaken, Pencroft," replied Gideon
Spilett, "and that the wood of the eucalyptus has begun to be very
advantageously employed in cabinet-making."

"And I may add," said Herbert, "that the eucalyptus belongs to a
family which comprises many useful members; the guava-tree, from
whose fruit guava jelly is made; the clove-tree, which produces the
spice; the pomegranate- tree, which bears pomegranates; the
Eugeacia Cauliflora, the fruit of which is used in making a
tolerable wine; the Ugui myrtle, which contains an excellent
alcoholic liquor; the Caryophyllus myrtle, of which the bark forms
an esteemed cinnamon; the Eugenia Pimenta, from whence comes
Jamaica pepper; the common myrtle, from whose buds and berries
spice is sometimes made; the Eucalyptus manifera, which yields a
sweet sort of manna; the Guinea Eucalyptus, the sap of which is
transformed into beer by fermentation; in short, all those trees
known under the name of gum-trees or iron-bark trees in Australia,
belong to this family of the myrtaceae, which contains forty-six
genera and thirteen hundred species!"
