In the meanwhile, considering the rapid current, Harding was led
to suppose that he and his companions were much farther from the
western coast than they had at first supposed. In fact, at this
hour, the rising tide would have turned back the current of the
creek, if its mouth had only been a few miles distant. Now, this
effect was not produced, and the water pursued its natural course.
The engineer was much astonished at this, and frequently consulted
his compass, to assure himself that some turn of the river was not
leading them again into the Far West.

However, the creek gradually widened and its waters became less
tumultuous. The trees on the right bank were as close together as
on the left bank, and it was impossible to distinguish anything
beyond them; but these masses of wood were evidently uninhabited,
for Top did not bark, and the intelligent animal would not have
failed to signal the presence of any stranger in the
neighborhood.

At half-past ten, to the great surprise of Cyrus Harding,
Herbert, who was a little in front, suddenly stopped and
exclaimed,—

"The sea!"

In a few minutes more, the whole western shore of the island lay
extended before the eyes of the settlers.

But what a contrast between this and the eastern coast, upon
which chance had first thrown them. No granite cliff, no rocks, not
even a sandy beach. The forest reached the shore, and the tall
trees bending over the water were beaten by the waves. It was not
such a shore as is usually formed by nature, either by extending a
vast carpet of sand, or by grouping masses of rock, but a beautiful
border consisting of the most splendid trees. The bank was raised a
little above the level of the sea, and on this luxuriant soil,
supported by a granite base, the fine forest trees seemed to be as
firmly planted as in the interior of the island.

The colonists were then on the shore of an unimportant little
harbor, which would scarcely have contained even two or three
fishing-boats. It served as a neck to the new creek, of which the
curious thing was that its waters, instead of joining the sea by a
gentle slope, fell from a height of more than forty feet, which
explained why the rising tide was not felt up the stream. In fact,
the tides of the Pacific, even at their maximum elevation, could
never reach the level of the river, and, doubtless, millions of
years would pass before the water would have worn away the granite
and hollowed a practicable mouth.

It was settled that the name of Falls River should be given to
this stream. Beyond, towards the north, the forest border was
prolonged for a space of nearly two miles; then the trees became
scarcer, and beyond that again the picturesque heights described a
nearly straight line, which ran north and south. On the contrary,
all the part of the shore between Falls River and Reptile End was a
mass of wood, magnificent trees, some straight, others bent, so
that the long sea-swell bathed their roots. Now, it was this coast,
that is, all the Serpentine Peninsula, that was to be explored, for
this part of the shore offered a refuge to castaways, which the
other wild and barren side must have refused.

The weather was fine and clear, and from a height of a hillock
on which Neb and Pencroft had arranged breakfast, a wide view was
obtained. There was, however, not a sail in sight; nothing could be
seen along the shore as far as the eye could reach. But the
engineer would take nothing for granted until he had explored the
coast to the very extremity of the Serpentine Peninsula.

Breakfast was soon despatched, and at half-past eleven the
captain gave the signal for departure. Instead of proceeding over
the summit of a cliff or along a sandy beach, the settlers were
obliged to remain under cover of the trees so that they might
continue on the shore.

The distance which separated Falls River from Reptile End was
about twelve miles. It would have taken the settlers four hours to
do this, on a clear ground and without hurrying themselves; but as
it was they needed double the time, for what with trees to go
round, bushes to cut down, and creepers to chop away, they were
impeded at every step, these obstacles greatly lengthening their
journey.
