
"It is all that remains of our airy boat, of our balloon, which
has been caught up aloft there, at the top of that tree!"

Pencroft was not mistaken, and he gave vent to his feelings in a
tremendous hurrah, adding,—

"There is good cloth! There is what will furnish us with linen
for years. There is what will make us handkerchiefs and shirts! Ha,
ha, Mr. Spilett, what do you say to an island where shirts grow on
the trees?"

It was certainly a lucky circumstance for the settlers in
Lincoln Island that the balloon, after having made its last bound
into the air, had fallen on the island and thus given them the
opportunity of finding it again, whether they kept the case under
its present form, or whether they wished to attempt another escape
by it, or whether they usefully employed the several hundred yards
of cotton, which was of fine quality. Pencroft's joy was therefore
shared by all.

But it was necessary to bring down the remains of the balloon
from the tree, to place it in security, and this was no slight
task. Neb, Herbert, and the sailor, climbing to the summit of the
tree, used all their skill to disengage the now reduced
balloon.

The operation lasted two hours, and then not only the case, with
its valve, its springs, its brasswork, lay on the ground, but the
net, that is to say a considerable quantity of ropes and cordage,
and the circle and the anchor. The case, except for the fracture,
was in good condition, only the lower portion being torn.

It was a fortune which had fallen from the sky.

"All the same, captain," said the sailor, "if we ever decide to
leave the island, it won't be in a balloon, will it? These airboats
won't go where we want them to go, and we have had some experience
in that way! Look here, we will build a craft of some twenty tons,
and then we can make a main-sail, a foresail, and a jib out of that
cloth. As to the rest of it, that will help to dress us."

"We shall see, Pencroft," replied Cyrus Harding; "we shall
see."

"In the meantime, we must put it in a safe place," said Neb.

