They certainly could not think of carrying this load of cloth,
ropes, and cordage, to Granite House, for the weight of it was very
considerable, and while waiting for a suitable vehicle in which to
convey it, it was of importance that this treasure should not be
left longer exposed to the mercies of the first storm. The
settlers, uniting their efforts, managed to drag it as far as the
shore, where they discovered a large rocky cavity, which owing to
its position could not be visited either by the wind or rain.

"We needed a locker, and now we have one," said Pencroft; "but
as we cannot lock it up, it will be prudent to hide the opening. I
don't mean from two-legged thieves, but from those with four
paws!"

At six o'clock, all was stowed away, and after having given the
creek the very suitable name of "Port Balloon," the settlers
pursued their way along Claw Cape. Pencroft and the engineer talked
of the different projects which it was agreed to put into execution
with the briefest possible delay. It was necessary first of all to
throw a bridge over the Mercy, so as to establish an easy
communication with the south of the island; then the cart must be
taken to bring back the balloon, for the canoe alone could not
carry it, then they would build a decked boat, and Pencroft would
rig it as a cutter, and they would be able to undertake voyages of
circumnavigation round the island, etc.

In the meanwhile night came on, and it was already dark when the
settlers reached Flotsam Point, where they had found the precious
chest.

The distance between Flotsam Point and Granite House was another
four miles, and it was midnight when, after having followed the
shore to the mouth of the Mercy, the settlers arrived at the first
angle formed by the Mercy.

There the river was eighty feet in breadth, which was awkward to
cross, but as Pencroft had taken upon himself to conquer this
difficulty, he was compelled to do it. The settlers certainly had
reason to be pretty tired. The journey had been long, and the task
of getting down the balloon had not rested either their arms or
legs. They were anxious to reach Granite House to eat and sleep,
and if the bridge had been constructed, in a quarter of an hour
they would have been at home.

The night was very dark. Pencroft prepared to keep his promise
by constructing a sort of raft, on which to make the passage of the
Mercy. He and Neb, armed with axes, chose two trees near the water,
and began to attack them at the base.

Cyrus Harding and Spilett, seated on the bank, waited till their
companions were ready for their help, while Herbert roamed about,
though without going to any distance. All at once, the lad, who had
strolled by the river, came running back, and, pointing up the
Mercy, exclaimed,—

"What is floating there?"

Pencroft stopped working, and seeing an indistinct object moving
through the gloom,—

"A canoe!" cried he.
