"Who but the hunter who fired the bullet?" replied the
reporter.

"Well, if there is any one up there," replied Pencroft, who
began to lose patience, "I will give them a hail, and they must
answer."

And in a stentorian voice the sailor gave a prolonged "Halloo!"
which was echoed again and again from the cliff and rocks.

The settlers listened and they thought they heard a sort of
chuckling laugh, of which they could not guess the origin. But no
voice replied to Pencroft, who in vain repeated his vigorous
shouts.

There was something indeed in this to astonish the most
apathetic of men, and the settlers were not men of that
description. In their situation every incident had its importance,
and, certainly, during the seven months which they had spent on the
island, they had not before met with anything of so surprising a
character.

Be that as it may, forgetting their fatigue in the singularity
of the event, they remained below Granite House, not knowing what
to think, not knowing what to do, questioning each other without
any hope of a satisfactory reply, every one starting some
supposition each more unlikely than the last. Neb bewailed himself,
much disappointed at not being able to get into his kitchen, for
the provisions which they had had on their expedition were
exhausted, and they had no means of renewing them.

"My friends," at last said Cyrus Harding, "there is only one
thing to be done at present; wait for day, and then act according
to circumstances. But let us go to the Chimneys. There we shall be
under shelter, and if we cannot eat, we can at least sleep."

"But who is it that has played us this cool trick?" again asked
Pencroft, unable to make up his mind to retire from the spot.

Whoever it was, the only thing practicable was to do as the
engineer proposed, to go to the Chimneys and there wait for day. In
the meanwhile Top was ordered to mount guard below the windows of
Granite House, and when Top received an order he obeyed it without
any questioning. The brave dog therefore remained at the foot of
the cliff while his master with his companions sought a refuge
among the rocks.

To say that the settlers, notwithstanding their fatigue, slept
well on the sandy floor of the Chimneys would not be true. It was
not only that they were extremely anxious to find out the cause of
what had happened, whether it was the result of an accident which
would be discovered at the return of day, or whether on the
contrary it was the work of a human being; but they also had very
uncomfortable beds. That could not be helped, however, for in some
way or other at that moment their dwelling was occupied, and they
could not possibly enter it.

Now Granite House was more than their dwelling, it was their
warehouse. There were all the stores belonging to the colony,
weapons, instruments, tools, ammunition, provisions, etc. To think
that all that might be pillaged and that the settlers would have
all their work to do over again, fresh weapons and tools to make,
was a serious matter. Their uneasiness led one or other of them
also to go out every few minutes to see if Top was keeping good
watch. Cyrus Harding alone waited with his habitual patience,
although his strong mind was exasperated at being confronted with
such an inexplicable fact, and he was provoked at himself for
allowing a feeling to which he could not give a name, to gain an
influence over him. Gideon Spilett shared his feelings in this
respect, and the two conversed together in whispers of the
inexplicable circumstance which baffled even their intelligence and
experience.
