The settlers now began to talk of fetching the balloon-case,
which they were anxious to place in perfect security; but to bring
it, it would be necessary to take a cart to Port Balloon, and
consequently, necessary to beat a road through the dense forests of
the Far West. This would take some time. Also, Neb and Pencroft
having gone to examine into the state of things at Port Balloon,
and reported that the stock of cloth would suffer no damage in the
grotto where it was stored, it was decided that the work at
Prospect Heights should not be discontinued.

"That," observed Pencroft, "will enable us to establish our
poultry-yard under better conditions, since we need have no fear of
visits from foxes nor the attacks of other beasts."

"Then," added Neb, "we can clear the plateau, and transplant
wild plants to it."

"And prepare our second corn-field!" cried the sailor with a
triumphant air.

In fact, the first corn-field sown with a single grain had
prospered admirably, thanks to Pencroft's care. It had produced the
ten ears foretold by the engineer, and each ear containing eighty
grains, the colony found itself in possession of eight hundred
grains, in six months, which promised a double harvest each
year.

These eight hundred grains, except fifty, which were prudently
reserved, were to be sown in a new field, but with no less care
than was bestowed on the single grain.

The field was prepared, then surrounded with a strong palisade,
high and pointed, which quadrupeds would have found difficulty in
leaping. As to birds, some scarecrows, due to Pencroft's ingenious
brain, were enough to frighten them. The seven hundred and fifty
grains deposited in very regular furrows were then left for nature
to do the rest.

On the 21st of November, Cyrus Harding began to plan the canal
which was to close the plateau on the west, from the south angle of
Lake Grant to the angle of the Mercy. There was there two or three
feet of vegetable earth, and below that granite. It was therefore
necessary to manufacture some more nitro-glycerine, and the
nitro-glycerine did its accustomed work. In less than a fortnight a
ditch, twelve feet wide and six deep, was dug out in the hard
ground of the plateau. A new trench was made by the same means in
the rocky border of the lake, forming a small stream, to which they
gave the name of Creek Glycerine, and which was thus an affluent of
the Mercy. As the engineer had predicted, the level of the lake was
lowered, though very slightly. To complete the enclosure the bed of
the stream on the beach was considerably enlarged, and the sand
supported by means of stakes.

By the end of the first fortnight of December these works were
finished, and Prospect Heights—that is to say, a sort of irregular
pentagon, having a perimeter of nearly four miles, surrounded by a
liquid belt—was completely protected from depredators of every
description.

During the month of December, the heat was very great. In spite
of it, however, the settlers continued their work, and as they were
anxious to possess a poultry-yard they forthwith commenced it.

It is useless to say that since the enclosing of the plateau had
been completed, Master Jup had been set at liberty. He did not
leave his masters, and evinced no wish to escape. He was a gentle
animal, though very powerful and wonderfully active. He was already
taught to make himself useful by drawing loads of wood and carting
away the stones which were extracted from the bed of Creek
Glycerine.
