


Chapter

8

&#160;


The first week of January was devoted to the manufacture of the
linen garments required by the colony. The needles found in the box
were used by sturdy if not delicate fingers, and we may be sure
that what was sewn was sewn firmly.

There was no lack of thread, thanks to Cyrus Harding's idea of
re- employing that which had been already used in the covering of
the balloon. This with admirable patience was all unpicked by
Gideon Spilett and Herbert, for Pencroft had been obliged to give
this work up, as it irritated him beyond measure; but he had no
equal in the sewing part of the business. Indeed, everybody knows
that sailors have a remarkable aptitude for tailoring.

The cloth of which the balloon-case was made was then cleaned by
means of soda and potash, obtained by the incineration of plants,
in such a way that the cotton, having got rid of the varnish,
resumed its natural softness and elasticity; then, exposed to the
action of the atmosphere, it soon became perfectly white. Some
dozen shirts and sock—the latter not knitted, of course, but made
of cotton—were thus manufactured. What a comfort it was to the
settlers to clothe themselves again in clean linen, which was
doubtless rather rough, but they were not troubled about that! and
then to go to sleep between sheets, which made the couches at
Granite House into quite comfortable beds!

It was about this time also that they made boots of
seal-leather, which were greatly needed to replace the shoes and
boots brought from America. We may be sure that these new shoes
were large enough and never pinched the feet of the wearers.

With the beginning of the year 1866 the heat was very great, but
the hunting in the forests did not stand still. Agouties,
peccaries, capybaras, kangaroos, game of all sorts, actually
swarmed there, and Spilett and Herbert were too good marksmen ever
to throw away their shot uselessly.

Cyrus Harding still recommended them to husband the ammunition,
and he took measures to replace the powder and shot which had been
found in the box, and which he wished to reserve for the future.
How did he know where chance might one day cast his companions and
himself in the event of their leaving their domain? They should,
then, prepare for the unknown future by husbanding their ammunition
and by substituting for it some easily renewable substance.

