
"A steam machine?"

"No, a water machine."

And, indeed, to work his apparatus there was already a natural
force at the disposal of the engineer which could be used without
great difficulty. For this, it was enough to augment the flow of
the little stream which supplied the interior of Granite House with
water. The opening among the stones and grass was then increased,
thus producing a strong fall at the bottom of the passage, the
overflow from which escaped by the inner well. Below this fall the
engineer fixed a cylinder with paddles, which was joined on the
exterior with a strong cable rolled on a wheel, supporting a
basket. In this way, by means of a long rope reaching to the
ground, which enabled them to regulate the motive power, they could
rise in the basket to the door of Granite House.

It was on the 17th of March that the lift acted for the first
time, and gave universal satisfaction. Henceforward all the loads,
wood, coal, provisions, and even the settlers themselves, were
hoisted by this simple system, which replaced the primitive ladder,
and, as may be supposed, no one thought of regretting the change.
Top particularly was enchanted with this improvement, for he had
not, and never could have possessed Master Jup's skill in climbing
ladders, and often it was on Neb's back, or even on that of the
orang that he had been obliged to make the ascent to Granite House.
About this time, too, Cyrus Harding attempted to manufacture glass,
and he at first put the old pottery-kiln to this new use. There
were some difficulties to be encountered; but, after several
fruitless attempts, he succeeded in setting up a glass manufactory,
which Gideon Spilett and Herbert, his usual assistants, did not
leave for several days. As to the substances used in the
composition of glass, they are simply sand, chalk, and soda, either
carbonate or sulphate. Now the beach supplied sand, lime supplied
chalk, sea-weeds supplied soda, pyrites supplied sulphuric acid,
and the ground supplied coal to heat the kiln to the wished-for
temperature. Cyrus Harding thus soon had everything ready for
setting to work.

The tool, the manufacture of which presented the most
difficulty, was the pipe of the glass-maker, an iron tube, five or
six feet long, which collects on one end the material in a state of
fusion. But by means of a long, thin piece of iron rolled up like
the barrel of a gun, Pencroft succeeded in making a tube soon ready
for use.

On the 28th of March the tube was heated. A hundred parts of
sand, thirty-five of chalk, forty of sulphate of soda, mixed with
two or three parts of powdered coal, composed the substance, which
was placed in crucibles. When the high temperature of the oven had
reduced it to a liquid, or rather a pasty state, Cyrus Harding
collected with the tube a quantity of the paste: he turned it about
on a metal plate, previously arranged, so as to give it a form
suitable for blowing, then he passed the tube to Herbert, telling
him to blow at the other extremity.

And Herbert, swelling out his cheeks, blew so much and so well
into the tube-taking care to twirl it round at the same time—that
his breath dilated the glassy mass. Other quantities of the
substance in a state of fusion were added to the first, and in a
short time the result was a bubble which measured a foot in
diameter. Harding then took the tube out of Herbert's hands, and,
giving it a pendulous motion, he ended by lengthening the malleable
bubble so as to give it a cylindroconic shape.

The blowing operation had given a cylinder of glass terminated
by two hemispheric caps, which were easily detached by means of a
sharp iron dipped in cold water; then, by the same proceeding, this
cylinder was cut lengthways, and after having been rendered
malleable by a second heating, it was extended on a plate and
spread out with a wooden roller.

The first pane was thus manufactured, and they had only to
perform this operation fifty times to have fifty panes. The windows
at Granite House were soon furnished with panes; not very white,
perhaps, but still sufficiently transparent.

As to bottles and tumblers, that was only play. They were
satisfied with them, besides, just as they came from the end of the
tube. Pencroft had asked to be allowed to "blow" in his turn, and
it was great fun for him; but he blew so hard that his productions
took the most ridiculous shapes, which he admired immensely.

