
The next day the settlers went to collect some, and returned to
Granite House with an ample supply of cycas stems. The engineer
constructed a press, with which to extract the mucilaginous juice
mingled with the fecula, and he obtained a large quantity of flour,
which Neb soon transformed into cakes and puddings. This was not
quite real wheaten bread, but it was very like it.

Now, too, the onager, the goats, and the sheep in the corral
furnished daily the milk necessary to the colony. The cart, or
rather a sort of light carriole which had replaced it, made
frequent journeys to the corral, and when it was Pencroft's turn to
go he took Jup, and let him drive, and Jup, cracking his whip,
acquitted himself with his customary intelligence.

Everything prospered, as well in the corral as in Granite House,
and certainly the settlers, if it had not been that they were so
far from their native land, had no reason to complain. They were so
well suited to this life, and were, besides, so accustomed to the
island, that they could not have left its hospitable soil without
regret!

And yet so deeply is the love of his country implanted in the
heart of man, that if a ship had unexpectedly come in sight of the
island, the colonists would have made signals, would have attracted
her attention, and would have departed!

It was the 1st of April, a Sunday, Easter Day, which Harding and
his companions sanctified by rest and prayer. The day was fine,
such as an October day in the Northern Hemisphere might be.

All, towards the evening after dinner, were seated under the
veranda on the edge of Prospect Heights, and they were watching the
darkness creeping up from the horizon. Some cups of the infusion of
elder-berries, which took the place of coffee, had been served by
Neb. They were speaking of the island and of its isolated situation
in the Pacific, which led Gideon Spilett to say,—

"My dear Cyrus, have you ever, since you possessed the sextant
found in the case, again taken the position of our island?"

"No," replied the engineer.

"But it would perhaps be a good thing to do it with this
instrument, which is more perfect than that which you before
used."

"What is the good?" said Pencroft. "The island is quite
comfortable where it is!"

