
"Something tells me," cried Herbert, "that a man as energetic as
Captain Harding would not let himself be drowned like other people.
He must have reached some point of the shore; don't you think so,
Pencroft?"

The sailor shook his head sadly. He little expected ever to see
Cyrus Harding again; but wishing to leave some hope to Herbert:
"Doubtless, doubtless," said he; "our engineer is a man who would
get out of a scrape to which any one else would yield."

In the meantime he examined the coast with great attention.
Stretched out below them was the sandy shore, bounded on the right
of the river's mouth by lines of breakers. The rocks which were
visible appeared like amphibious monsters reposing in the surf.
Beyond the reef, the sea sparkled beneath the sun's rays. To the
south a sharp point closed the horizon, and it could not be seen if
the land was prolonged in that direction, or if it ran southeast
and southwest, which would have made this coast a very long
peninsula. At the northern extremity of the bay the outline of the
shore was continued to a great distance in a wider curve. There the
shore was low, flat, without cliffs, and with great banks of sand,
which the tide left uncovered. Pencroft and Herbert then returned
towards the west. Their attention was first arrested by the
snow-topped mountain which rose at a distance of six or seven
miles. From its first declivities to within two miles of the coast
were spread vast masses of wood, relieved by large green patches,
caused by the presence of evergreen trees. Then, from the edge of
this forest to the shore extended a plain, scattered irregularly
with groups of trees. Here and there on the left sparkled through
glades the waters of the little river; they could trace its winding
course back towards the spurs of the mountain, among which it
seemed to spring. At the point where the sailor had left his raft
of wood, it began to run between the two high granite walls; but if
on the left bank the wall remained clear and abrupt, on the right
bank, on the contrary, it sank gradually, the massive sides changed
to isolated rocks, the rocks to stones, the stones to shingle
running to the extremity of the point.

"Are we on an island?" murmured the sailor.

"At any rate, it seems to be big enough," replied the lad.

"An island, ever so big, is an island all the same!" said
Pencroft.

But this important question could not yet be answered. A more
perfect survey had to be made to settle the point. As to the land
itself, island or continent, it appeared fertile, agreeable in its
aspect, and varied in its productions.

"This is satisfactory," observed Pencroft; "and in our
misfortune, we must thank Providence for it."

"God be praised!" responded Herbert, whose pious heart was full
of gratitude to the Author of all things.

Pencroft and Herbert examined for some time the country on which
they had been cast; but it was difficult to guess after so hasty an
inspection what the future had in store for them.

