They then returned, following the southern crest of the granite
platform, bordered by a long fringe of jagged rocks, of the most
whimsical shapes. Some hundreds of birds lived there nestled in the
holes of the stone; Herbert, jumping over the rocks, startled a
whole flock of these winged creatures.

"Oh!" cried he, "those are not gulls nor sea-mews!"

"What are they then?" asked Pencroft.

"Upon my word, one would say they were pigeons!"

"Just so, but these are wild or rock pigeons. I recognize them
by the double band of black on the wing, by the white tail, and by
their slate- colored plumage. But if the rock-pigeon is good to
eat, its eggs must be excellent, and we will soon see how many they
may have left in their nests!"

"We will not give them time to hatch, unless it is in the shape
of an omelet!" replied Pencroft merrily.

"But what will you make your omelet in?" asked Herbert; "in your
hat?"

"Well!" replied the sailor, "I am not quite conjuror enough for
that; we must come down to eggs in the shell, my boy, and I will
undertake to despatch the hardest!"

Pencroft and Herbert attentively examined the cavities in the
granite, and they really found eggs in some of the hollows. A few
dozen being collected, were packed in the sailor's handkerchief,
and as the time when the tide would be full was approaching,
Pencroft and Herbert began to redescend towards the watercourse.
When they arrived there, it was an hour after midday. The tide had
already turned. They must now avail themselves of the ebb to take
the wood to the mouth. Pencroft did not intend to let the raft go
away in the current without guidance, neither did he mean to embark
on it himself to steer it. But a sailor is never at a loss when
there is a question of cables or ropes, and Pencroft rapidly
twisted a cord, a few fathoms long, made of dry creepers. This
vegetable cable was fastened to the after-part of the raft, and the
sailor held it in his hand while Herbert, pushing off the raft with
a long pole, kept it in the current. This succeeded capitally. The
enormous load of wood drifted down the current. The bank was very
equal; there was no fear that the raft would run aground, and
before two o'clock they arrived at the river's mouth, a few paces
from the Chimneys.




