The ape and the dog were silent. Jup went off to bed, but Top
remained in the room, and continued to utter low growls at
intervals during the rest of the evening. There was no further talk
on the subject, but the incident, however, clouded the brow of the
engineer.

During the remainder of the month of July there was alternate
rain and frost. The temperature was not so low as during the
preceding winter, and its maximum did not exceed eight degrees
Fahrenheit. But although this winter was less cold, it was more
troubled by storms and squalls; the sea besides often endangered
the safety of the Chimneys. At times it almost seemed as if an
under-current raised these monstrous billows which thundered
against the wall of Granite House.

When the settlers, leaning from their windows, gazed on the huge
watery masses breaking beneath their eyes, they could not but
admire the magnificent spectacle of the ocean in its impotent fury.
The waves rebounded in dazzling foam, the beach entirely
disapppearing under the raging flood, and the cliff appearing to
emerge from the sea itself, the spray rising to a height of more
than a hundred feet.

During these storms it was difficult and even dangerous to
venture out, owing to the frequently falling trees; however, the
colonists never allowed a week to pass without having paid a visit
to the corral. Happily, this enclosure, sheltered by the
southeastern spur of Mount Franklin, did not greatly suffer from
the violence of the hurricanes, which spared its trees, sheds, and
palisades; but the poultry-yard on Prospect Heights, being directly
exposed to the gusts of wind from the east, suffered considerable
damage. The pigeon-house was twice unroofed and the paling blown
down. All this required to be remade more solidly than before, for,
as may be clearly seen, Lincoln Island was situated in one of the
most dangerous parts of the Pacific. It really appeared as if it
formed the central point of vast cyclones, which beat it
perpetually as the whip does the top, only here it was the top
which was motionless and the whip which moved. During the first
week of the month of August the weather became more moderate, and
the atmosphere recovered the calm which it appeared to have lost
forever. With the calm the cold again became intense, and the
thermometer fell to eight degrees Fahrenheit, below zero.

On the 3rd of August an excursion which had been talked of for
several days was made into the southeastern part of the island,
towards Tadorn Marsh. The hunters were tempted by the aquatic game
which took up their winter quarters there. Wild duck, snipe, teal
and grebe abounded there, and it was agreed that a day should be
devoted to an expedition against these birds.

Not only Gideon Spilett and Herbert, but Pencroft and Neb also
took part in this excursion. Cyrus Harding alone, alleging some
work as an excuse, did not join them, but remained at Granite
House.

The hunters proceeded in the direction of Port Balloon, in order
to reach the marsh, after having promised to be back by the
evening. Top and Jup accompanied them. As soon as they had passed
over the Mercy Bridge, the engineer raised it and returned,
intending to put into execution a project for the performance of
which he wished to be alone.

Now this project was to minutely explore the interior well, the
mouth of which was on a level with the passage of Granite House,
and which communicated with the sea, since it formerly supplied a
way to the waters of the lake.

Why did Top so often run round this opening? Why did he utter
such strange barks when a sort of uneasiness seemed to draw him
towards this well? Why did Jup join Top in a sort of common
anxiety? Had this well branches besides the communication with the
sea? Did it spread towards other parts of the island? This is what
Cyrus Harding wished to know. He had resolved, therefore, to
attempt the exploration of the well during the absence of his
companions, and an opportunity for doing so had now presented
itself.

It was easy to descend to the bottom of the well by employing
the rope ladder which had not been used since the establishment of
the lift. The engineer drew the ladder to the hole, the diameter of
which measured nearly six feet, and allowed it to unroll itself
after having securely fastened its upper extremity. Then, having
lighted a lantern, taken a revolver, and placed a cutlass in his
belt, he began the descent.

The sides were everywhere entire; but points of rock jutted out
here and there, and by means of these points it would have been
quite possible for an active creature to climb to the mouth of the
well.
