It appeared as if Jup understood, for he leaned his head on
Pencroft's shoulder as if to thank him. The sailor was wounded
himself, but his wound was insignificant, as were those of his
companions; for thanks to their firearms they had been almost
always able to keep their assailants at a distance. it was
therefore only the orang whose condition was serious.

Jup, carried by Neb and Pencroft, was placed in the lift, and
only a slight moan now and then escaped his lips. He was gently
drawn up to Granite House. There he was laid on a mattress taken
from one of the beds, and his wounds were bathed with the greatest
care. It did not appear that any vital part had been reached, but
Jup was very weak from loss of blood, and a high fever soon set in
after his wounds had been dressed. He was laid down, strict diet
was imposed, "just like a real person," as Neb said, and they made
him swallow several cups of a cooling drink, for which the
ingredients were supplied from the vegetable medicine chest of
Granite House. Jup was at first restless, but his breathing
gradually became more regular, and he was left sleeping quietly.
From time to time Top, walking on tip-toe, as one might say, came
to visit his friend, and seemed to approve of all the care that had
been taken of him. One of Jup's hands hung over the side of his
bed, and Top licked it with a sympathizing air.

They employed the day in interring the dead, who were dragged to
the forest of the Far West, and there buried deep.

This attack, which might have had such serious consequences, was
a lesson to the settlers, who from this time never went to bed
until one of their number had made sure that all the bridges were
raised, and that no invasion was possible.

However, Jup, after having given them serious anxiety for
several days, began to recover. His constitution brought him
through, the fever gradually subsided, and Gideon Spilett, who was
a bit of a doctor, pronounced him quite out of danger. On the 16th
of August, Jup began to eat. Neb made him nice little sweet dishes,
which the invalid devoured with great relish, for if he had a pet
failing it was that of being somewhat of a gourmend, and Neb had
never done anything to cure him of this fault.

"What would you have?" said he to Gideon Spilett, who sometimes
expostulated with him for spoiling the ape. "Poor Jup has no other
pleasure than that of the palate, and I am only too glad to be able
to reward his services in this way!"

Ten days after taking to his bed, on the 21st of August, Master
Jup arose. His wounds were healed, and it was evident that he would
not be long in regaining his usual strength and agility. Like all
convalescents, he was tremendously hungry, and the reporter allowed
him to eat as much as he liked, for he trusted to that instinct,
which is too often wanting in reasoning beings, to keep the orang
from any excess. Neb was delighted to see his pupil's appetite
returning.

"Eat away, my Jup," said he, "and don't spare anything; you have
shed your blood for us, and it is the least I can do to make you
strong again!"

On the 25th of August Neb's voice was heard calling to his
companions.

"Captain, Mr. Spilett, Mr. Herbert, Pencroft, come! come!"

The colonists, who were together in the dining-room, rose at
Neb's call, who was then in Jup's room.
