As there was no want of wood, Pencroft proposed to the engineer
to give a double lining to the hull, to insure the strength of the
vessel.

Harding, not knowing what the future might have in store for
them, approved the sailor's idea of making the craft as strong as
possible. The interior and deck of the vessel was entirely finished
towards the 15th of September. For calking the seams they made
oakum of dry seaweed, which was hammered in between the planks;
then these seams were covered with boiling tar, which was obtained
in great abundance from the pines in the forest.

The management of the vessel was very simple. She had from the
first been ballasted with heavy blocks of granite walled up, in a
bed of lime, twelve thousand pounds of which they stowed away.

A deck was placed over this ballast, and the interior was
divided into two cabins; two benches extended along them and served
also as lockers. The foot of the mast supported the partition which
separated the two cabins, which were reached by two hatchways let
into the deck.

Pencroft had no trouble in finding a tree suitable for the mast.
He chose a straight young fir, with no knots, and which he had only
to square at the step, and round off at the top. The ironwork of
the mast, the rudder and the hull had been roughly but strongly
forged at the Chimneys. Lastly, yards, masts, boom, spars, oars,
etc., were all furnished by the first week in October, and it was
agreed that a trial trip should be taken round the island, so as to
ascertain how the vessel would behave at sea, and how far they
might depend upon her.

During all this time the necessary works had not been neglected.
The corral was enlarged, for the flock of musmons and goats had
been increased by a number of young ones, who had to be housed and
fed. The colonists had paid visits also to the oyster bed, the
warren, the coal and iron mines, and to the till then unexplored
districts of the Far West forest, which abounded in game. Certain
indigenous plants were discovered, and those fit for immediate use
contributed to vary the vegetable stores of Granite House.

They were a species of ficoide, some similar to those of the
Cape, with eatable fleshy leaves, others bearing seeds containing a
sort of flour.

On the 10th of October the vessel was launched. Pencroft was
radiant with joy, the operation was perfectly successful; the boat
completely rigged, having been pushed on rollers to the water's
edge, was floated by the rising tide, amid the cheers of the
colonists, particularly of Pencroft, who showed no modesty on this
occasion. Besides his importance was to last beyond the finishing
of the vessel, since, after having built her, he was to command
her. The grade of captain was bestowed upon him with the
approbation of all. To satisfy Captain Pencroft, it was now
necessary to give a name to the vessel, and, after many
propositions had been discussed, the votes were all in favor of the
"Bonadventure." As soon as the "Bonadventure" had been lifted by
the rising tide, it was seen that she lay evenly in the water, and
would be easily navigated. However, the trial trip was to be made
that very day, by an excursion off the coast. The weather was fine,
the breeze fresh, and the sea smooth, especially towards the south
coast, for the wind was blowing from the northwest.

"All hands on board," shouted Pencroft; but breakfast was first
necessary, and it was thought best to take provisions on board, in
the event of their excursion being prolonged until the evening.

Cyrus Harding was equally anxious to try the vessel, the model
of which had originated with him, although on the sailor's advice
he had altered some parts of it, but he did not share Pencroft's
confidence in her, and as the latter had not again spoken of the
voyage to Tabor Island, Harding hoped he had given it up. He would
have indeed great reluctance in letting two or three of his
companions venture so far in so small a boat, which was not of more
than fifteen tons' burden.

At half-past ten everybody was on board, even Top and Jup, and
Herbert weighed the anchor, which was fast in the sand near the
mouth of the Mercy. The sail was hoisted, the Lincolnian flag
floated from the masthead, and the "Bonadventure," steered by
Pencroft, stood out to sea.
