In the evening the crescent moon, which would not be in its
first quarter until the 16th, appeared in the twilight and soon set
again. The night was dark but starry, and the next day again
promised to be fine.

Pencroft prudently lowered the foresail, not wishing to be
caught by a sudden gust while carrying too much canvas; it was
perhaps an unnecessary precaution on such a calm night, but
Pencroft was a prudent sailor and cannot be blamed for it.

The reporter slept part of the night. Pencroft and Herbert took
turns for a spell of two hours each at the helm. The sailor trusted
Herbert as he would himself, and his confidence was justified by
the coolness and judgment of the lad. Pencroft gave him his
directions as a commander to his steersman, and Herbert never
allowed the "Bonadventure" to swerve even a point. The night passed
quickly, as did the day of the 12th of October. A south-easterly
direction was strictly maintained. Unless the "Bonadventure" fell
in with some unknown current she would come exactly within sight of
Tabor Island.

As to the sea over which the vessel was then sailing, it was
absolutely deserted. Now and then a great albatross or frigate bird
passed within gunshot, and Gideon Spilett wondered if it was to one
of them that he had confided his last letter addressed to the New
York Herald. These birds were the only beings that appeared to
frequent this part of the ocean between Tabor and Lincoln
Islands.

"And yet," observed Herbert, "this is the time that whalers
usually proceed towards the southern part of the Pacific. Indeed I
do not think there could be a more deserted sea than this."

"It is not quite so deserted as all that," replied Pencroft.

"What do you mean?" asked the reporter.

"We are on it. Do you take our vessel for a wreck and us for
porpoises?"

And Pencroft laughed at his joke.

By the evening, according to calculation, it was thought that
the "Bonadventure" had accomplished a distance of a hundred and
twenty miles since her departure from Lincoln Island, that is to
say in thirty-six hours, which would give her a speed of between
three and four knots an hour. The breeze was very slight and might
soon drop altogether. However, it was hoped that the next morning
by break of day, if the calculation had been correct and the course
true, they would sight Tabor Island.

Neither Gideon Spilett, Herbert, nor Pencroft slept that night.
In the expectation of the next day they could not but feel some
emotion. There was so much uncertainty in their enterprise! Were
they near Tabor Island? Was the island still inhabited by the
castaway to whose succor they had come? Who was this man? Would not
his presence disturb the little colony till then so united?
Besides, would he be content to exchange his prison for another?
All these questions, which would no doubt be answered the next day,
kept them in suspense, and at the dawn of day they all fixed their
gaze on the western horizon.
