The vessel was securely moored, so that there should be no
danger of her being carried away by the receding tide; then
Pencroft and his companions, well armed, ascended the shore, so as
to gain an elevation of about two hundred and fifty or three
hundred feet which rose at a distance of half a mile.

"From the summit of that hill," said Spilett, "we can no doubt
obtain a complete view of the island, which will greatly facilitate
our search."

"So as to do here," replied Herbert, "that which Captain Harding
did the very first thing on Lincoln Island, by climbing Mount
Franklin."

"Exactly so," answered the reporter, "and it is the best
plan."

While thus talking the explorers had advanced along a clearing
which terminated at the foot of the hill. Flocks of rock-pigeons
and sea- swallows, similar to those of Lincoln Island, fluttered
around them. Under the woods which skirted the glade on the left
they could hear the bushes rustling and see the grass waving, which
indicated the presence of timid animals, but still nothing to show
that the island was inhabited.

Arrived at the foot of the hill, Pencroft, Spilett, and Herbert
climbed it in a few minutes, and gazed anxiously round the
horizon.

They were on an islet, which did not measure more than six miles
in circumference, its shape not much bordered by capes or
promontories, bays or creeks, being a lengthened oval. All around,
the lonely sea extended to the limits of the horizon. No land nor
even a sail was in sight.

This woody islet did not offer the varied aspects of Lincoln
Island, arid and wild in one part, but fertile and rich in the
other. On the contrary this was a uniform mass of verdure, out of
which rose two or three hills of no great height. Obliquely to the
oval of the island ran a stream through a wide meadow falling into
the sea on the west by a narrow mouth.

"The domain is limited," said Herbert.

"Yes," rejoined Pencroft: "It would have been too small for
us."

"And moreover," said the reporter, "it appears to be
uninhabited."
