
But no voice was heard, the door did not open. The hours thus
passed away.

How long the night appeared to the sailor and his companions!
Herbert alone slept for two hours, for at his age sleep is a
necessity. They were all three anxious to continue their
exploration of the day before, and to search the most secret
recesses of the islet! The inferences deduced by Pencroft were
perfectly reasonable, and it was nearly certain that, as the hut
was deserted, and the tools, utensils, and weapons were still
there, the owner had succumbed. It was agreed, therefore, that they
should search for his remains, and give them at least Christian
burial.

Day dawned; Pencroft and his companions immediately proceeded to
survey the dwelling. It had certainly been built in a favorable
situation, at the back of a little hill, sheltered by five or six
magnificent gum-trees. Before its front and through the trees the
axe had prepared a wide clearing, which allowed the view to extend
to the sea. Beyond a lawn, surrounded by a wooden fence falling to
pieces, was the shore, on the left of which was the mouth of the
stream.

The hut had been built of planks, and it was easy to see that
these planks had been obtained from the hull or deck of a ship. It
was probable that a disabled vessel had been cast on the coast of
the island, that one at least of the crew had been saved, and that
by means of the wreck this man, having tools at his disposal, had
built the dwelling.

And this became still more evident when Gideon Spilett, after
having walked around the hut, saw on a plank, probably one of those
which had formed the armor of the wrecked vessel, these letters
already half effaced:

BR—TAN—A

"Britannia," exclaimed Pencroft, whom the reporter had called;
"it is a common name for ships, and I could not say if she was
English or American!"

"It matters very little, Pencroft!"

"Very little indeed," answered the sailor, "and we will save the
survivor of her crew if he is still living, to whatever country he
may belong. But before beginning our search again let us go on
board the 'Bonadventure'."

A sort of uneasiness had seized Pencroft upon the subject of his
vessel. Should the island be inhabited after all, and should some
one have taken possession of her? But he shrugged his shoulders at
such an unreasonable supposition. At any rate the sailor was not
sorry to go to breakfast on board. The road already trodden was not
long, scarcely a mile. They set out on their walk, gazing into the
wood and thickets through which goats and pigs fled in
hundreds.

