The cords which shackled the prisoner's feet were cut off, but
his arms remained securely fastened. He got up by himself and did
not manifest any desire to run away. His hard eyes darted a
piercing glance at the three men, who walked near him, but nothing
denoted that he recollected being their fellow, or at least having
been so. A continual hissing sound issued from his lips, his aspect
was wild, but he did not attempt to resist.

By the reporter's advice the unfortunate man was taken to the
hut. Perhaps the sight of the things that belonged to him would
make some impression on him! Perhaps a spark would be sufficient to
revive his obscured intellect, to rekindle his dulled soul. The
dwelling was not far off. In a few minutes they arrived there, but
the prisoner remembered nothing, and it appeared that he had lost
consciousness of everything.

What could they think of the degree of brutishness into which
this miserable being had fallen, unless that his imprisonment on
the islet dated from a very distant period and after having arrived
there a rational being solitude had reduced him to this
condition.

The reporter then thought that perhaps the sight of fire would
have some effect on him, and in a moment one of those beautiful
flames, that attract even animals, blazed up on the hearth. The
sight of the flame seemed at first to fix the attention of the
unhappy object, but soon he turned away and the look of
intelligence faded. Evidently there was nothing to be done, for the
time at least, but to take him on board the "Bonadventure." This
was done, and he remained there in Pencroft's charge.

Herbert and Spilett returned to finish their work; and some
hours after they came back to the shore, carrying the utensils and
guns, a store of vegetables, of seeds, some game, and two couple of
pigs.

All was embarked, and the "Bonadventure" was ready to weigh
anchor and sail with the morning tide.

The prisoner had been placed in the fore-cabin, where he
remained quiet, silent, apparently deaf and dumb.

Pencroft offered him something to eat, but he pushed away the
cooked meat that was presented to him and which doubtless did not
suit him. But on the sailor showing him one of the ducks which
Herbert had killed, he pounced on it like a wild beast, and
devoured it greedily.

"You think that he will recover his senses?" asked Pencroft. "It
is not impossible that our care will have an effect upon him, for
it is solitude that has made him what he is, and from this time
forward he will be no longer alone."

"The poor man must no doubt have been in this state for a long
time," said Herbert.

"Perhaps," answered Gideon Spilett.
