
"About what age is he?" asked the lad.

"It is difficult to say," replied the reporter, "for it is
impossible to see his features under the thick beard which covers
his face, but he is no longer young, and I suppose he might be
about fifty."

"Have you noticed, Mr. Spilett, how deeply sunk his eyes are?"
asked Herbert.

"Yes, Herbert, but I must add that they are more human than one
could expect from his appearance."

"However, we shall see," replied Pencroft, "and I am anxious to
know what opinion Captain Harding will have of our savage. We went
to look for a human creature, and we are bringing back a monster!
After all, we did what we could."

The night passed, and whether the prisoner slept or not could
not be known, but at any rate, although he had been unbound, he did
not move. He was like a wild animal, which appears stunned at first
by its capture, and becomes wild again afterwards.

At daybreak the next morning, the 15th of October, the change of
weather predicted by Pencroft occurred. The wind having shifted to
the northwest favored the return of the "Bonadventure," but at the
same time it freshened, which might render navigation more
difficult.

At five o'clock in the morning the anchor was weighed. Pencroft
took a reef in the mainsail, and steered towards the north-east, so
as to sail straight for Lincoln Island.

The first day of the voyage was not marked by any incident. The
prisoner remained quiet in the fore-cabin, and as he had been a
sailor it appeared that the motion of the vessel might produce on
him a salutary reaction. Did some recollection of his former
calling return to him? However that might be, he remained tranquil,
astonished rather than depressed.

The next day the wind increased, blowing more from the north,
consequently in a less favorable direction for the "Bonadventure."
Pencroft was soon obliged to sail close-hauled, and without saying
anything about it he began to be uneasy at the state of the sea,
which frequently broke over the bows. Certainly, if the wind did
not moderate, it would take a longer time to reach Lincoln Island
than it had taken to make Tabor Island.

