
During the first days passed by the stranger in Granite House,
had he already given them reason to think that his savage nature
was becoming tamed? Did a brighter light burn in the depths of that
obscured mind? In short, was the soul returning to the body?

Yes, to a certainty, and to such a degree, that Cyrus Harding
and the reporter wondered if the reason of the unfortunate man had
ever been totally extinguished. At first, accustomed to the open
air, to the unrestrained liberty which he had enjoyed on Tabor
Island, the stranger manifested a sullen fury, and it was feared
that he might throw himself onto the beach, out of one of the
windows of Granite House. But gradually he became calmer, and more
freedom was allowed to his movements.

They had reason to hope, and to hope much. Already, forgetting
his carnivorous instincts, the stranger accepted a less bestial
nourishment than that on which he fed on the islet, and cooked meat
did not produce in him the same sentiment of repulsion which he had
showed on board the "Bonadventure." Cyrus Harding had profited by a
moment when he was sleeping, to cut his hair and matted beard,
which formed a sort of mane and gave him such a savage aspect. He
had also been clothed more suitably, after having got rid of the
rag which covered him. The result was that, thanks to these
attentions, the stranger resumed a more human appearance, and it
even seemed as if his eyes had become milder. Certainly, when
formerly lighted up by intelligence, this man's face must have had
a sort of beauty.

Every day, Harding imposed on himself the task of passing some
hours in his company. He came and worked near him, and occupied
himself in different things, so as to fix his attention. A spark,
indeed, would be sufficient to reillumine that soul, a recollection
crossing that brain to recall reason. That had been seen, during
the storm, on board the "Bonadventure!" The engineer did not
neglect either to speak aloud, so as to penetrate at the same time
by the organs of hearing and sight the depths of that torpid
intelligence. Sometimes one of his companions, sometimes another,
sometimes all joined him. They spoke most often of things belonging
to the navy, which must interest a sailor.

At times, the stranger gave some slight attention to what was
said, and the settlers were soon convinced that he partly
understood them. Sometimes the expression of his countenance was
deeply sorrowful, a proof that he suffered mentally, for his face
could not be mistaken; but he did not speak, although at different
times, however, they almost thought that words were about to issue
from his lips. At all events, the poor creature was quite quiet and
sad!

But was not his calm only apparent? Was not his sadness only the
result of his seclusion? Nothing could yet be ascertained. Seeing
only certain objects and in a limited space, always in contact with
the colonists, to whom he would soon become accustomed, having no
desires to satisfy, better fed, better clothed, it was natural that
his physical nature should gradually improve; but was he penetrated
with the sense of a new life? or rather, to employ a word which
would be exactly applicable to him, was he not becoming tamed, like
an animal in company with his master? This was an important
question, which Cyrus Harding was anxious to answer, and yet he did
not wish to treat his invalid roughly! Would he ever be a
convalescent?

How the engineer observed him every moment! How he was on the
watch for his soul, if one may use the expression! How he was ready
to grasp it! The settlers followed with real sympathy all the
phases of the cure undertaken by Harding. They aided him also in
this work of humanity, and all, except perhaps the incredulous
Pencroft, soon shared both his hope and his faith.

The calm of the stranger was deep, as has been said, and he even
showed a sort of attachment for the engineer, whose influence he
evidently felt. Cyrus Harding resolved then to try him, by
transporting him to another scene, from that ocean which formerly
his eyes had been accustomed to contemplate, to the border of the
forest, which might perhaps recall those where so many years of his
life had been passed!

"But," said Gideon Spilett, "can we hope that he will not
escape, if once set at liberty?"

"The experiment must be tried," replied the engineer.

