
"And then," continued the sailor, "if the document was several
years old, if it had been shut up in that bottle for several years,
it would have been injured by damp. Now, there is nothing of the
kind, and it was found in a perfect state of preservation."

The sailor's reasoning was very just, and pointed out an
incomprehensible fact, for the document appeared to have been
recently written, when the colonists found it in the bottle.
Moreover, it gave the latitude and longitude of Tabor Island
correctly, which implied that its author had a more complete
knowledge of hydrography than could be expected of a common
sailor.

"There is in this, again, something unaccountable," said the
engineer, "but we will not urge our companions to speak. When he
likes, my friends, then we shall be ready to hear him!"

During the following days the stranger did not speak a word, and
did not once leave the precincts of the plateau. He worked away,
without losing a moment, without taking a minute's rest, but always
in a retired place. At meal times he never came to Granite House,
although invited several times to do so, but contented himself with
eating a few raw vegetables. At nightfall he did not return to the
room assigned to him, but remained under some clump of trees, or
when the weather was bad crouched in some cleft of the rocks. Thus
he lived in the same manner as when he had no other shelter than
the forests of Tabor Island, and as all persuasion to induce him to
improve his life was in vain, the colonists waited patiently. And
the time was near, when, as it seemed, almost involuntarily urged
by his conscience, a terrible confession escaped him.

On the 10th of November, about eight o'clock in the evening, as
night was coming on, the stranger appeared unexpectedly before the
settlers, who were assembled under the veranda. His eyes burned
strangely, and he had quite resumed the wild aspect of his worst
days.

Cyrus Harding and his companions were astounded on seeing that,
overcome by some terrible emotion, his teeth chattered like those
of a person in a fever. What was the matter with him? Was the sight
of his fellow-creatures insupportable to him? Was he weary of this
return to a civilized mode of existence? Was he pining for his
former savage life? It appeared so, as soon he was heard to express
himself in these incoherent sentences:—

"Why am I here?… . By what right have you dragged me from my
islet?… . Do you think there could be any tie between you and me?…
. Do you know who I am—what I have done—why I was there—alone? And
who told you that I was not abandoned there—that I was not
condemned to die there?… . Do you know my past?… . How do you know
that I have not stolen, murdered—that I am not a wretch—an accursed
being—only fit to live like a wild beast, far from all—speak—do you
know it?"

The colonists listened without interrupting the miserable
creature, from whom these broken confessions escaped, as it were,
in spite of himself. Harding wishing to calm him, approached him,
but he hastily drew back.

"No! no!" he exclaimed; "one word only—am I free?"

"You are free," answered the engineer.

