"Farewell, then!" he cried, and fled like a madman.

Neb, Pencroft, and Herbert ran also towards the edge of the
wood—but they returned alone.

"We must let him alone!" said Cyrus Harding.

"He will never come back!" exclaimed Pencroft.

"He will come back," replied the engineer.

Many days passed; but Harding—was it a sort of presentiment?
—presentiment in the fixed idea that sooner or later the unhappy
man would return.

"It is the last revolt of his wild nature," said he, "which
remorse has touched, and which renewed solitude will terrify."

In the meanwhile, works of all sorts were continued, as well on
Prospect Heights as at the corral, where Harding intended to build
a farm. It is unnecessary to say that the seeds collected by
Herbert on Tabor Island had been carefully sown. The plateau thus
formed one immense kitchen-garden, well laid out and carefully
tended, so that the arms of the settlers were never in want of
work. There was always something to be done. As the esculents
increased in number, it became necessary to enlarge the simple
beds, which threatened to grow into regular fields and replace the
meadows. But grass abounded in other parts of the island, and there
was no fear of the onagers being obliged to go on short allowance.
It was well worth while, besides, to turn Prospect Heights into a
kitchen-garden, defended by its deep belt of creeks, and to remove
them to the meadows, which had no need of protection against the
depredations of quadrumana and quadrapeds.

On the 15th of November, the third harvest was gathered in. How
wonderfully had the field increased in extent, since eighteen
months ago, when the first grain of wheat was sown! The second crop
of six hundred thousand grains produced this time four thousand
bushels, or five hundred millions of grains!

The colony was rich in corn, for ten bushels alone were
sufficient for sowing every year to produce an ample crop for the
food both of men and beasts. The harvest was completed, and the
last fortnight of the month of November was devoted to the work of
converting it into food for man. In fact, they had corn, but not
flour, and the establishment of a mill was necessary. Cyrus Harding
could have utilized the second fall which flowed into the Mercy to
establish his motive power, the first being already occupied with
moving the felting mill, but, after some consultation, it was
decided that a simple windmill should be built on Prospect Heights.
The building of this presented no more difficulty than the building
of the former, and it was moreover certain that there would be no
want of wind on the plateau, exposed as it was to the sea
breezes.

"Not to mention," said Pencroft, "that the windmill will be more
lively and will have a good effect in the landscape!"
