
The stranger remained standing in a corner of the room, a little
in the shade. He was bareheaded, his arms folded across his chest,
and it was in this posture that in a hoarse voice, speaking like
some one who obliges himself to speak, he gave the following
recital, which his auditors did not once interrupt:—

"On the 20th of December, 1854, a steam-yacht, belonging to a
Scotch nobleman, Lord Glenarvan, anchored off Cape Bernouilli, on
the western coast of Australia, in the thirty-seventh parallel. On
board this yacht were Lord Glenarvan and his wife, a major in the
English army, a French geographer, a young girl, and a young boy.
These two last were the children of Captain Grant, whose ship, the
'Britannia,' had been lost, crew and cargo, a year before. The
'Duncan' was commanded by Captain John Mangles, and manned by a
crew of fifteen men.

"This is the reason the yacht at this time lay off the coast of
Australia. Six months before, a bottle, enclosing a document
written in English, German, and French, had been found in the Irish
Sea, and picked up by the 'Duncan.' This document stated in
substance that there still existed three survivors from the wreck
of the 'Britannia,' that these survivors were Captain Grant and two
of his men, and that they had found refuge on some land, of which
the document gave the latitude, but of which the longitude, effaced
by the sea, was no longer legible.

"This latitude was 37deg 11' south; therefore, the longitude
being unknown, if they followed the thirty-seventh parallel over
continents and seas, they would be certain to reach the spot
inhabited by Captain Grant and his two companions. The English
Admiralty having hesitated to undertake this search, Lord Glenarvan
resolved to attempt everything to find the captain. He communicated
with Mary and Robert Grant, who joined him. The 'Duncan' yacht was
equipped for the distant voyage, in which the nobleman's family and
the captain's children wished to take part, and the 'Duncan,'
leaving Glasgow, proceeded towards the Atlantic, passed through the
Straits of Magellan, and ascended the Pacific as far as Patagonia,
where, according to a previous interpretation of the document, they
supposed that Captain Grant was a prisoner among the Indians.

"The 'Duncan' disembarked her passengers on the western coast of
Patagonia, and sailed to pick them up again on the eastern coast at
Cape Corrientes. Lord Glenarvan traversed Patagonia, following the
thirty- seventh parallel, and having found no trace of the captain,
he re-embarked on the 13th of November, so as to pursue his search
through the Ocean.

"After having unsuccessfully visited the islands of Tristan
d'Acunha and Amsterdam, situated in her course, the 'Duncan,' as I
have said, arrived at Cape Bernouilli, on the Australian coast, on
the 20th of December, 1854.

"It was Lord Glenarvan's intention to traverse Australia as he
had traversed America, and he disembarked. A few miles from the
coast was established a farm, belonging to an Irishman, who offered
hospitality to the travelers. Lord Glenarvan made known to the
Irishman the cause which had brought him to these parts, and asked
if he knew whether a three-masted English vessel, the 'Britannia,'
had been lost less than two years before on the west coast of
Australia.

"The Irishman had never heard of this wreck, but, to the great
surprise of the bystanders, one of his servants came forward and
said,—

"'My lord, praise and thank God! If Captain Grant is still
living, he is living on the Australian shores.'

"'Who are you?' asked Lord Glenarvan.

