
"At last!" cried Pencroft, getting up; "I was never so nervous
before in all my life!"

The flat stones made a capital fireplace. The smoke went quite
easily out at the narrow passage, the chimney drew, and an
agreeable warmth was not long in being felt.

They must now take great care not to let the fire go out, and
always to keep some embers alight. It only needed care and
attention, as they had plenty of wood and could renew their store
at any time.

Pencroft's first thought was to use the fire by preparing a more
nourishing supper than a dish of shell-fish. Two dozen eggs were
brought by Herbert. The reporter leaning up in a corner, watched
these preparations without saying anything. A threefold thought
weighed on his mind. Was Cyrus still alive? If he was alive, where
was he? If he had survived from his fall, how was it that he had
not found some means of making known his existence? As to Neb, he
was roaming about the shore. He was like a body without a soul.

Pencroft knew fifty ways of cooking eggs, but this time he had
no choice, and was obliged to content himself with roasting them
under the hot cinders. In a few minutes the cooking was done, and
the seaman invited the reporter to take his share of the supper.
Such was the first repast of the castaways on this unknown coast.
The hard eggs were excellent, and as eggs contain everything
indispensable to man's nourishment, these poor people thought
themselves well off, and were much strengthened by them. Oh! if
only one of them had not been missing at this meal! If the five
prisoners who escaped from Richmond had been all there, under the
piled-up rocks, before this clear, crackling fire on the dry sand,
what thanksgiving must they have rendered to Heaven! But the most
ingenious, the most learned, he who was their unquestioned chief,
Cyrus Harding, was, alas! missing, and his body had not even
obtained a burial-place.

Thus passed the 25th of March. Night had come on. Outside could
be heard the howling of the wind and the monotonous sound of the
surf breaking on the shore. The waves rolled the shingle backwards
and forwards with a deafening noise.

The reporter retired into a dark corner after having shortly
noted down the occurrences of the day; the first appearance of this
new land, the loss of their leader, the exploration of the coast,
the incident of the matches, etc.; and then overcome by fatigue, he
managed to forget his sorrows in sleep. Herbert went to sleep
directly. As to the sailor, he passed the night with one eye on the
fire, on which he did not spare fuel. But one of the castaways did
not sleep in the cave. The inconsolable, despairing Neb,
notwithstanding all that his companions could say to induce him to
take some rest, wandered all night long on the shore calling on his
master.




