
"Nor was it he who threw it in, my dear Spilett."

"You think then—"

"I think nothing, I know nothing!" interrupted Cyrus Harding. "I
am content to rank this incident among those which I have not been
able to explain to this day!"

"Indeed, Cyrus," said Spilett, "these things are incredible!
Your rescue, the case stranded on the sand, Top's adventure, and
lastly this bottle… Shall we never have the answer to these
enigmas?"

"Yes!" replied the engineer quickly, "yes, even if I have to
penetrate into the bowels of this island!"

"Chance will perhaps give us the key to this mystery!"

"Chance! Spilett! I do not believe in chance, any more than I
believe in mysteries in this world. There is a reason for
everything unaccountable which has happened here, and that reason I
shall discover. But in the meantime we must work and observe."

The month of January arrived. The year 1867 commenced. The
summer occupations were assiduously continued. During the days
which followed, Herbert and Spilett having gone in the direction of
the corral, ascertained that Ayrton had taken possession of the
habitation which had been prepared for him. He busied himself with
the numerous flock confided to his care, and spared his companions
the trouble of coming every two or three days to visit the corral.
Nevertheless, in order not to leave Ayrton in solitude for too long
a time, the settlers often paid him a visit.

It was not unimportant either, in consequence of some suspicions
entertained by the engineer and Gideon Spilett, that this part of
the island should be subject to a surveillance of some sort, and
that Ayrton, if any incident occurred unexpectedly, should not
neglect to inform the inhabitants of Granite House of it.

Nevertheless it might happen that something would occur which it
would be necessary to bring rapidly to the engineer's knowledge.
Independently of facts bearing on the mystery of Lincoln Island,
many others might happen, which would call for the prompt
interference of the colonists,—such as the sighting of a vessel, a
wreck on the western coast, the possible arrival of pirates,
etc.

