
Cyrus Harding, after mature consideration, decided to
manufacture a very simple battery, resembling as nearly as possible
that invented by Becquerel in 1820, and in which zinc only is
employed. The other substances, azotic acid and potash, were all at
his disposal.

The way in which the battery was composed was as follows, and
the results were to be attained by the reaction of acid and potash
on each other. A number of glass bottles were made and filled with
azotic acid. The engineer corked them by means of a stopper through
which passed a glass tube, bored at its lower extremity, and
intended to be plunged into the acid by means of a clay stopper
secured by a rag. Into this tube, through its upper extremity, he
poured a solution of potash, previously obtained by burning and
reducing to ashes various plants, and in this way the acid and
potash could act on each other through the clay.

Cyrus Harding then took two slips of zinc, one of which was
plunged into azotic acid, the other into a solution of potash. A
current was immediately produced, which was transmitted from the
slip of zinc in the bottle to that in the tube, and the two slips
having been connected by a metallic wire the slip in the tube
became the positive pole, and that in the bottle the negative pole
of the apparatus. Each bottle, therefore, produced as many currents
as united would be sufficient to produce all the phenomena of the
electric telegraph. Such was the ingenious and very simple
apparatus constructed by Cyrus Harding, an apparatus which would
allow them to establish a telegraphic communication between Granite
House and the corral.

On the 6th of February was commenced the planting along the road
to the corral, of posts furnished with glass insulators, and
intended to support the wire. A few days after, the wire was
extended, ready to produce the electric current at a rate of twenty
thousand miles a second.

Two batteries had been manufactured, one for Granite House, the
other for the corral; for if it was necessary the corral should be
able to communicate with Granite House it might also be useful that
Granite House should be able to communicate with the corral.

As to the receiver and manipulator, they were very simple. At
the two stations the wire was wound round a magnet, that is to say,
round a piece of soft iron surrounded with a wire. The
communication was thus established between the two poles; the
current, starting from the positive pole, traversed the wire,
passed through the magnet which was temporarily magnetized, and
returned through the earth to the negative pole. If the current was
interrupted, the magnet immediately became unmagnetized. It was
sufficient to place a plate of soft iron before the magnet, which,
attracted during the passage of the current, would fall back when
the current was interrupted. This movement of the plate thus
obtained, Harding could easily fasten to it a needle arranged on a
dial, bearing the letters of the alphabet, and in this way
communicate from one station to the other.

All was completely arranged by the 12th of February. On this
day, Harding, having sent the current through the wire, asked if
all was going on well at the corral, and received in a few moments
a satisfactory reply from Ayrton. Pencroft was wild with joy, and
every morning and evening he sent a telegram to the corral, which
always received an answer.

This mode of communication presented two very real advantages:
firstly, because it enabled them to ascertain that Ayrton was at
the corral; and secondly, that he was thus not left completely
isolated. Besides, Cyrus Harding never allowed a week to pass
without going to see him, and Ayrton came from time to time to
Granite House, where he always found a cordial welcome.

The fine season passed away in the midst of the usual work. The
resources of the colony, particularly in vegetables and corn,
increased from day to day, and the plants brought from Tabor Island
had succeeded perfectly.

The plateau of Prospect Heights presented an encouraging aspect.
The fourth harvest had been admirable and it may be supposed that
no one thought of counting whether the four hundred thousand
millions of grains duly appeared in the crop. However, Pencroft had
thought of doing so, but Cyrus Harding having told him that even if
he managed to count three hundred grains a minute, or nine thousand
an hour, it would take him nearly five thousand five-hundred years
to finish his task, the honest sailor considered it best to give up
the idea.

