The weather was splendid, the temperature very warm in the day
time, but in the evening the sea-breezes tempered the heat of the
atmosphere and procured cool nights for the inhabitants of Granite
House. There were, however, a few storms, which, although they were
not of long duration, swept over Lincoln Island with extraordinary
fury. The lightning blazed and the thunder continued to roll for
some hours.

At this period the little colony was extremely prosperous.

The tenants of the poultry-yard swarmed, and they lived on the
surplus, but it became necessary to reduce the population to a more
moderate number. The pigs had already produced young, and it may be
understood that their care for these animals absorbed a great part
of Neb and Pencroft's time. The onagers, who had two pretty colts,
were most often mounted by Gideon Spilett and Herbert, who had
become an excellent rider under the reporter's instruction, and
they also harnessed them to the cart either for carrying wood and
coal to Granite House, or different mineral productions required by
the engineer.

Several expeditions were made about this time into the depths of
the Far West Forests. The explorers could venture there without
having anything to fear from the heat, for the sun's rays scarcely
penetrated through the thick foliage spreading above their heads.
They thus visited all the left bank of the Mercy, along which ran
the road from the corral to the mouth of Falls River.

But in these excursions the settlers took care to be well armed,
for they met with savage wild boars, with which they often had a
tussle. They also, during this season, made fierce war against the
jaguars. Gideon Spilett had vowed a special hatred against them,
and his pupil Herbert seconded him well. Armed as they were, they
no longer feared to meet one of those beasts. Herbert's courage was
superb, and the reporter's sang-froid astonishing. Already twenty
magnificent skins ornamented the dining-room of Granite House, and
if this continued, the jaguar race would soon be extinct in the
island, the object aimed at by the hunters.

The engineer sometimes took part in the expeditions made to the
unknown parts of the island, which he surveyed with great
attention. It was for other traces than those of animals that he
searched the thickets of the vast forest, but nothing suspicious
ever appeared. Neither Top nor Jup, who accompanied him, ever
betrayed by their behavior that there was anything strange there,
and yet more than once again the dog barked at the mouth of the
well, which the engineer had before explored without result.

At this time Gideon Spilett, aided by Herbert, took several
views of the most picturesque parts of the island, by means of the
photographic apparatus found in the cases, and of which they had
not as yet made any use.

This apparatus, provided with a powerful object-glass, was very
complete. Substances necessary for the photographic reproduction,
collodion for preparing the glass plate, nitrate of silver to
render it sensitive, hyposulfate of soda to fix the prints
obtained, chloride of ammonium in which to soak the paper destined
to give the positive proof, acetate of soda and chloride of gold in
which to immerse the paper, nothing was wanting. Even the papers
were there, all prepared, and before laying in the printing-frame
upon the negatives, it was sufficient to soak them for a few
minutes in the solution of nitrate of silver.

The reporter and his assistant became in a short time very
skilful operators, and they obtained fine views of the country,
such as the island, taken from Prospect Heights with Mount Franklin
in the distance, the mouth of the Mercy, so picturesquely framed in
high rocks, the glade and the corral, with the spurs of the
mountain in the background, the curious development of Claw Cape,
Flotsam Point, etc.

Nor did the photographers forget to take the portraits of all
the inhabitants of the island, leaving out no one.

"It multiplies us," said Pencroft.
