


Chapter

6

&#160;


The inventory of the articles possessed by these castaways from
the clouds, thrown upon a coast which appeared to be uninhabited,
was soon made out. They had nothing, save the clothes which they
were wearing at the time of the catastrophe. We must mention,
however, a note-book and a watch which Gideon Spilett had kept,
doubtless by inadvertence, not a weapon, not a tool, not even a
pocket-knife; for while in the car they had thrown out everything
to lighten the balloon. The imaginary heroes of Daniel Defoe or of
Wyss, as well as Selkirk and Raynal shipwrecked on Juan Fernandez
and on the archipelago of the Aucklands, were never in such
absolute destitution. Either they had abundant resources from their
stranded vessels, in grain, cattle, tools, ammunition, or else some
things were thrown up on the coast which supplied them with all the
first necessities of life. But here, not any instrument whatever,
not a utensil. From nothing they must supply themselves with
everything.

And yet, if Cyrus Harding had been with them, if the engineer
could have brought his practical science, his inventive mind to
bear on their situation, perhaps all hope would not have been lost.
Alas! they must hope no longer again to see Cyrus Harding. The
castaways could expect nothing but from themselves and from that
Providence which never abandons those whose faith is sincere.

But ought they to establish themselves on this part of the
coast, without trying to know to what continent it belonged, if it
was inhabited, or if they were on the shore of a desert island?

It was an important question, and should be solved with the
shortest possible delay. From its answer they would know what
measures to take. However, according to Pencroft's advice, it
appeared best to wait a few days before commencing an exploration.
They must, in fact, prepare some provisions and procure more
strengthening food than eggs and molluscs. The explorers, before
undertaking new fatigues, must first of all recruit their
strength.

The Chimneys offered a retreat sufficient for the present. The
fire was lighted, and it was easy to preserve some embers. There
were plenty of shell-fish and eggs among the rocks and on the
beach. It would be easy to kill a few of the pigeons which were
flying by hundreds about the summit of the plateau, either with
sticks or stones. Perhaps the trees of the neighboring forest would
supply them with eatable fruit. Lastly, the sweet water was
there.

It was accordingly settled that for a few days they would remain
at the Chimneys so as to prepare themselves for an expedition,
either along the shore or into the interior of the country. This
plan suited Neb particularly. As obstinate in his ideas as in his
presentiments, he was in no haste to abandon this part of the
coast, the scene of the catastrophe. He did not, he would not
believe in the loss of Cyrus Harding. No, it did not seem to him
possible that such a man had ended in this vulgar fashion, carried
away by a wave, drowned in the floods, a few hundred feet from a
shore. As long as the waves had not cast up the body of the
engineer, as long as he, Neb, had not seen with his eyes, touched
with his hands the corpse of his master, he would not believe in
his death! And this idea rooted itself deeper than ever in his
determined heart. An illusion perhaps, but still an illusion to be
respected, and one which the sailor did not wish to destroy. As for
him, he hoped no longer, but there was no use in arguing with Neb.
He was like the dog who will not leave the place where his master
is buried, and his grief was such that most probably he would not
survive him.

