
On the morning of the 16th of April all the colonists, including
Top, embarked. A fine breeze blew from the south-west, and the
"Bonadventure" tacked on leaving Port Balloon so as to reach
Reptile End. Of the ninety miles which the perimeter of the island
measured, twenty included the south coast between the port and the
promontory. The wind being right ahead it was necessary to hug the
shore.

It took the whole day to reach the promontory, for the vessel on
leaving port had only two hours of ebb tide and had therefore to
make way for six hours against the flood. It was nightfall before
the promontory was doubled.

The sailor then proposed to the engineer that they should
continue sailing slowly with two reefs in the sail. But Harding
preferred to anchor a few cable-lengths from the shore, so as to
survey that part of the coast during the day. It was agreed also
that as they were anxious for a minute exploration of the coast
they should not sail during the night, but would always, when the
weather permitted it, be at anchor near the shore.

The night was passed under the promontory, and the wind having
fallen, nothing disturbed the silence. The passengers, with the
exception of the sailor, scarcely slept as well on board the
"Bonadventure" as they would have done in their rooms at Granite
House, but they did sleep however. Pencroft set sail at break of
day, and by going on the larboard tack they could keep close to the
shore.

The colonists knew this beautiful wooded coast, since they had
already explored it on foot, and yet it again excited their
admiration. They coasted along as close in as possible, so as to
notice everything, avoiding always the trunks of trees which
floated here and there. Several times also they anchored, and
Gideon Spilett took photographs of the superb scenery.

About noon the "Bonadventure" arrived at the mouth of Falls
River. Beyond, on the left bank, a few scattered trees appeared,
and three miles further even these dwindled into solitary groups
among the western spurs of the mountain, whose arid ridge sloped
down to the shore.

What a contrast between the northern and southern part of the
coast! In proportion as one was woody and fertile so was the other
rugged and barren! It might have been designated as one of those
iron coasts, as they are called in some countries, and its wild
confusion appeared to indicate that a sudden crystallization had
been produced in the yet liquid basalt of some distant geological
sea. These stupendous masses would have terrified the settlers if
they had been cast at first on this part of the island! They had
not been able to perceive the sinister aspect of this shore from
the summit of Mount Franklin, for they overlooked it from too great
a height, but viewed from the sea it presented a wild appearance
which could not perhaps be equaled in any corner of the globe.

The "Bonadventure" sailed along this coast for the distance of
half a mile. It was easy to see that it was composed of blocks of
all sizes, from twenty to three hundred feet in height, and of all
shapes, round like towers, prismatic like steeples, pyramidal like
obelisks, conical like factory chimneys. An iceberg of the Polar
seas could not have been more capricious in its terrible sublimity!
Here, bridges were thrown from one rock to another; there, arches
like those of a wave, into the depths of which the eye could not
penetrate; in one place, large vaulted excavations presented a
monumental aspect; in another, a crowd of columns, spires, and
arches, such as no Gothic cathedral ever possessed. Every caprice
of nature, still more varied than those of the imagination,
appeared on this grand coast, which extended over a length of eight
or nine miles.

Cyrus Harding and his companions gazed, with a feeling of
surprise bordering on stupefaction. But, although they remained
silent, Top, not being troubled with feelings of this sort, uttered
barks which were repeated by the thousand echoes of the basaltic
cliff. The engineer even observed that these barks had something
strange in them, like those which the dog had uttered at the mouth
of the well in Granite House.

"Let us go close in," said he.

