
"Hurrah for Bob Harvey!"

What Ayrton felt when he overheard this fragment of conversation
may be understood when it is known that in this Bob Harvey he
recognized one of his old Australian companions, a daring sailor,
who had continued his criminal career. Bob Harvey had seized, on
the shores of Norfolk Island this brig, which was loaded with arms,
ammunition, utensils, and tools of all sorts, destined for one of
the Sandwich Islands. All his gang had gone on board, and pirates
after having been convicts, these wretches, more ferocious than the
Malays themselves, scoured the Pacific, destroying vessels, and
massacring their crews.

The convicts spoke loudly, they recounted their deeds, drinking
deeply at the same time, and this is what Ayrton gathered. The
actual crew of the "Speedy" was composed solely of English
prisoners, escaped from Norfolk Island.

Here it may be well to explain what this island was. In 29deg 2'
south latitude, and 165deg 42' east longitude, to the east of
Australia, is found a little island, six miles in circumference,
overlooked by Mount Pitt, which rises to a height of 1,100 feet
above the level of the sea. This is Norfolk Island, once the seat
of an establishment in which were lodged the most intractable
convicts from the English penitentiaries. They numbered 500, under
an iron discipline, threatened with terrible punishments, and were
guarded by 150 soldiers, and 150 employed under the orders of the
governor. It would be difficult to imagine a collection of greater
ruffians. Sometimes,—although very rarely,—notwithstanding the
extreme surveillance of which they were the object, many managed to
escape, and seizing vessels which they surprised, they infested the
Polynesian Archipelagoes.

Thus had Bob Harvey and his companions done. Thus had Ayrton
formerly wished to do. Bob Harvey had seized the brig "Speedy,"
anchored in sight of Norfolk Island; the crew had been massacred;
and for a year this ship had scoured the Pacific, under the command
of Harvey, now a pirate, and well known to Ayrton!

The convicts were, for the most part, assembled under the poop;
but a few, stretched on the deck, were talking loudly.

The conversation still continued amid shouts and libations.
Ayrton learned that chance alone had brought the "Speedy" in sight
of Lincoln Island; Bob Harvey had never yet set foot on it; but, as
Cyrus Harding had conjectured, finding this unknown land in his
course, its position being marked on no chart, he had formed the
project of visiting it, and, if he found it suitable, of making it
the brig's headquarters.

As to the black flag hoisted at the "Speedy's" peak, and the gun
which had been fired, in imitation of men-of-war when they lower
their colors, it was pure piratical bravado. It was in no way a
signal, and no communication yet existed between the convicts and
Lincoln Island.

The settlers' domain was now menaced with terrible danger.
Evidently the island, with its water, its harbor, its resources of
all kinds so increased in value by the colonists, and the
concealment afforded by Granite House, could not but be convenient
for the convicts; in their hands it would become an excellent place
of refuge, and, being unknown, it would assure them, for a long
time perhaps, impunity and security. Evidently, also, the lives of
the settlers would not be respected, and Bob Harvey and his
accomplices' first care would be to massacre them without mercy.
Harding and his companions had, therefore, not even the choice of
flying and hiding themselves in the island, since the convicts
intended to reside there, and since, in the event of the "Speedy"
departing on an expedition, it was probable that some of the crew
would remain on shore, so as to settle themselves there. Therefore,
it would be necessary to fight, to destroy every one of these
scoundrels, unworthy of pity, and against whom any means would be
right. So thought Ayrton, and he well knew that Cyrus Harding would
be of his way of thinking.

But was resistance and, in the last place, victory possible?
That would depend on the equipment of the brig, and the number of
men which she carried.

