
"What are you doing here?" again said Bob Harvey, seizing Ayrton
by the waistband.

But Ayrton, without replying, wrenched himself from his grasp
and attempted to rush into the magazine. A shot fired into the
midst of the powder-casks, and all would be over!

"Help, lads!" shouted Bob Harvey.

At his shout two or three pirates awoke, jumped up, and, rushing
on Ayrton, endeavored to throw him down. He soon extricated himself
from their grasp. He fired his revolver, and two of the convicts
fell, but a blow from a knife which he could not ward off made a
gash in his shoulder.

Ayrton perceived that he could no longer hope to carry out his
project. Bob Harvey had reclosed the door of the powder-magazine,
and a movement on the deck indicated a general awakening of the
pirates. Ayrton must reserve himself to fight at the side of Cyrus
Harding. There was nothing for him but flight!

But was flight still possible? It was doubtful, yet Ayrton
resolved to dare everything in order to rejoin his companions.

Four barrels of the revolver were still undischarged. Two were
fired— one, aimed at Bob Harvey, did not wound him, or at any rate
only slightly, and Ayrton, profiting by the momentary retreat of
his adversaries, rushed towards the companion-ladder to gain the
deck. Passing before the lantern, he smashed it with a blow from
the butt of his revolver. A profound darkness ensued, which favored
his flight. Two or three pirates, awakened by the noise, were
descending the ladder at the same moment.

A fifth shot from Ayrton laid one low, and the others drew back,
not understanding what was going on. Ayrton was on deck in two
bounds, and three seconds later, having discharged his last barrel
in the face of a pirate who was about to seize him by the throat,
he leaped over the bulwarks into the sea.

Ayrton had not made six strokes before shots were splashing
around him like hail.

What were Pencroft's feelings, sheltered under a rock on the
islet! What were those of Harding, the reporter, Herbert, and Neb,
crouched in the Chimneys, when they heard the reports on board the
brig! They rushed out on to the beach, and, their guns shouldered,
they stood ready to repel any attack.

