
"We shall soon see," rejoined the sailor, "but I would wager my
head there are no rocks in the channel. Look here, captain, to
speak candidly, do you mean to say that there is anything marvelous
in the occurrence?"

Cyrus Harding did not answer.

"At any rate," said Gideon Spilett, "whether rock or explosion,
you will agree, Pencroft, that it occurred just in the nick of
time!"

"Yes! yes!" replied the sailor, "but that is not the question. I
ask Captain Harding if he sees anything supernatural in all
this."

"I cannot say, Pencroft," said the engineer. "That is all the
answer I can make."

A reply which did not satisfy Pencroft at all. He stuck to "an
explosion," and did not wish to give it up. He would never consent
to admit that in that channel, with its fine sandy bed, just like
the beach, which he had often crossed at low water, there could be
an unknown rock.

And besides, at the time the brig foundered, it was high water,
that is to say, there was enough water to carry the vessel clear
over any rocks which would not be uncovered at low tide. Therefore,
there could not have been a collision. Therefore, the vessel had
not struck. So she had blown up.

And it must be confessed that the sailor's arguments were
reasonable.

Towards half-past one, the colonists embarked in the boat to
visit the wreck. It was to be regretted that the brig's two boats
had not been saved; but one, as has been said, had gone to pieces
at the mouth of the Mercy, and was absolutely useless; the other
had disappeared when the brig went down, and had not again been
seen, having doubtless been crushed.

The hull of the "Speedy" was just beginning to issue from the
water. The brig was lying right over on her side, for her masts
being broken, pressed down by the weight of the ballast displaced
by the shock, the keel was visible along her whole length. She had
been regularly turned over by the inexplicable but frightful
submarine action, which had been at the same time manifested by an
enormous water-spout.

