
"What danger shall we run," said Herbert, "if we take care to be
always on our guard?"

"Hum!" observed the reporter, who had not given any decided
opinion. "They are six and well armed. If they each lay hid in a
corner, and each fired at one of us, they would soon be masters of
the colony!"

"Why have they not done so?" said Herbert. "No doubt because it
was not their interest to do it. Besides, we are six also."

"Well, well!" replied Pencroft, whom no reasoning could have
convinced. "Let us leave these good people to do what they like,
and don't think anything more about them!"

"Come, Pencroft," said Neb, "don't make yourself out so bad as
all that! Suppose one of these unfortunate men were here before
you, within good range of your guns, you would not fire."

"I would fire on him as I would on a mad dog, Neb," replied
Pencroft coldly.

"Pencroft," said the engineer, "you have always shown much
deference to my advice; will you, in this matter, yield to me?"

"I will do as you please, Captain Harding," answered the sailor,
who was not at all convinced.

"Very well, wait, and we will not attack them unless we are
attacked first."

Thus their behavior towards the pirates was agreed upon,
although Pencroft augured nothing good from it. They were not to
attack them, but were to be on their guard. After all, the island
was large and fertile. If any sentiment of honesty yet remained in
the bottom of their hearts, these wretches might perhaps be
reclaimed. Was it not their interest in the situation in which they
found themselves to begin a new life? At any rate, for humanity's
sake alone, it would be right to wait. The colonists would no
longer as before, be able to go and come without fear. Hitherto
they had only wild beasts to guard against, and now six convicts of
the worst description, perhaps, were roaming over their island. It
was serious, certainly, and to less brave men, it would have been
security lost! No matter! At present, the colonists had reason on
their side against Pencroft. Would they be right in the future?
That remained to be seen.

