The colonists worked with a will, and the two dams which besides
did not exceed eight feet in width by three in height, were rapidly
erected by means of well-cemented blocks of stone.

This work finished, it would have been impossible to guess that
at that part of the lake, there existed a subterranean passage
through which the overflow of the lake formerly escaped.

Of course the little stream which fed the reservoir of Granite
House and worked the lift, had been carefully preserved, and the
water could not fail. The lift once raised, this sure and
comfortable retreat would be safe from any surprise.

This work had been so quickly done, that Pencroft, Gideon
Spilett, and Herbert found time to make an expedition to Port
Balloon, The sailor was very anxious to know if the little creek in
which the "Bonadventure" was moored, had been visited by the
convicts.

"These gentlemen," he observed, "landed on the south coast, and
if they followed the shore, it is to be feared that they may have
discovered the little harbor, and in that case, I wouldn't give
half-a-dollar for our 'Bonadventure.'"

Pencroft's apprehensions were not without foundation, and a
visit to Port Balloon appeared to be very desirable. The sailor and
his companions set off on the 10th of November, after dinner, well
armed. Pencroft, ostentatiously slipping two bullets into each
barrel of his rifle, shook his head in a way which betokened
nothing good to any one who approached too near him, whether "man
or beast," as he said. Gideon Spilett and Herbert also took their
guns, and about three o'clock all three left Granite House.

Neb accompanied them to the turn of the Mercy, and after they
had crossed, he raised the bridge. It was agreed that a gunshot
should announce the colonists' return, and that at the signal Neb
should return and reestablish the communication between the two
banks of the river.

The little band advanced directly along the road which led to
the southern coast of the island. This was only a distance of three
miles and a half, but Gideon Spilett and his companions took two
hours to traverse it. They examined all the border of the road, the
thick forest, as well as Tabor Marsh. They found no trace of the
fugitives who, no doubt, not having yet discovered the number of
the colonists, or the means of defense which they had at their
disposal, had gained the less accessible parts of the island.

Arrived at Port Balloon, Pencroft saw with extreme satisfaction
that the "Bonadventure" was tranquilly floating in the narrow
creek. However, Port Balloon was so well hidden among high rocks,
that it could scarcely be discovered either from the land or the
sea.

"Come," said Pencroft, "the blackguards have not been there yet.
Long grass suits reptiles best, and evidently we shall find them in
the Far West."

"And it's very lucky, for if they had found the 'Bonadventure',"
added Herbert, "they would have gone off in her, and we should have
been prevented from returning to Tabor Island."
