
"Pencroft!" said Cyrus Harding.

Gideon Spilett had resumed his examination of the wounded boy.
Herbert was still so frightfully pale, that the reporter felt
anxious.

"Cyrus," said he, "I am not a surgeon. I am in terrible
perplexity. You must aid me with your advice, your experience!"

"Take courage, my friend," answered the engineer, pressing the
reporter's hand. "Judge coolly. Think only of this: Herbert must be
saved!"

These words restored to Gideon Spilett that self-possession
which he had lost in a moment of discouragement on feeling his
great responsibility. He seated himself close to the bed. Cyrus
Harding stood near. Pencroft had torn up his shirt, and was
mechanically making lint.

Spilett then explained to Cyrus Harding that he thought he ought
first of all to stop the hemorrhage, but not close the two wounds,
or cause their immediate cicatrization, for there had been internal
perforation, and the suppuration must not be allowed to accumulate
in the chest.

Harding approved entirely, and it was decided that the two
wounds should be dressed without attempting to close them by
immediate coaptation.

And now did the colonists possess an efficacious agent to act
against the inflammation which might occur?

Yes. They had one, for nature had generously lavished it. They
had cold water, that is to say, the most powerful sedative that can
be employed against inflammation of wounds, the most efficacious
therapeutic agent in grave cases, and the one which is now adopted
by all physicians. Cold water has, moreover, the advantage of
leaving the wound in absolute rest, and preserving it from all
premature dressing, a considerable advantage, since it has been
found by experience that contact with the air is dangerous during
the first days.

Gideon Spilett and Cyrus Harding reasoned thus with their simple
good sense, and they acted as the best surgeon would have done.
Compresses of linen were applied to poor Herbert's two wounds, and
were kept constantly wet with cold water.

