At eight o'clock Neb had not appeared, but there was no doubt
that the frightful weather alone hindered his return, and that he
must have taken refuge in some cave, to await the end of the storm
or at least the return of day. As to going to meet him, or
attempting to find him, it was impossible.

The game constituted the only dish at supper; the meat was
excellent, and Pencroft and Herbert, whose long excursion had
rendered them very hungry, devoured it with infinite
satisfaction.

Their meal concluded, each retired to the corner in which he had
rested the preceding night, and Herbert was not long in going to
sleep near the sailor, who had stretched himself beside the
fireplace.

Outside, as the night advanced, the tempest also increased in
strength, until it was equal to that which had carried the
prisoners from Richmond to this land in the Pacific. The tempests
which are frequent during the seasons of the equinox, and which are
so prolific in catastrophes, are above all terrible over this
immense ocean, which opposes no obstacle to their fury. No
description can give an idea of the terrific violence of the gale
as it beat upon the unprotected coast.

Happily the pile of rocks which formed the Chimneys was solid.
It was composed of enormous blocks of granite, a few of which,
insecurely balanced, seemed to tremble on their foundations, and
Pencroft could feel rapid quiverings under his head as it rested on
the rock. But he repeated to himself, and rightly, that there was
nothing to fear, and that their retreat would not give way. However
he heard the noise of stones torn from the summit of the plateau by
the wind, falling down on to the beach. A few even rolled on to the
upper part of the Chimneys, or flew off in fragments when they were
projected perpendicularly. Twice the sailor rose and intrenched
himself at the opening of the passage, so as to take a look in
safety at the outside. But there was nothing to be feared from
these showers, which were not considerable, and he returned to his
couch before the fireplace, where the embers glowed beneath the
ashes.

Notwithstanding the fury of the hurricane, the uproar of the
tempest, the thunder, and the tumult, Herbert slept profoundly.
Sleep at last took possession of Pencroft, whom a seafaring life
had habituated to anything. Gideon Spilett alone was kept awake by
anxiety. He reproached himself with not having accompanied Neb. It
was evident that he had not abandoned all hope. The presentiments
which had troubled Herbert did not cease to agitate him also. His
thoughts were concentrated on Neb. Why had Neb not returned? He
tossed about on his sandy couch, scarcely giving a thought to the
struggle of the elements. Now and then, his eyes, heavy with
fatigue, closed for an instant, but some sudden thought reopened
them almost immediately.

Meanwhile the night advanced, and it was perhaps two hours from
morning, when Pencroft, then sound asleep, was vigorously
shaken.

"What's the matter?" he cried, rousing himself, and collecting
his ideas with the promptitude usual to seamen.

The reporter was leaning over him, and saying,—

"Listen, Pencroft, listen!"

The sailor strained his ears, but could hear no noise beyond
those caused by the storm.
