"What do you mean?" asked the reporter.

"That we are not at the end of our trouble yet, my dear Spilett,
and that his powerful intervention may have another opportunity of
exercising itself. But that is not the question now. Herbert's life
before everything."

This was the colonists' saddest thought. Several days passed,
and the poor boy's state was happily no worse. Cold water, always
kept at a suitable temperature, had completely prevented the
inflammation of the wounds. It even seemed to the reporter that
this water, being slightly sulphurous,—which was explained by the
neighborhood of the volcano, had a more direct action on the
healing. The suppuration was much less abundant, and thanks to the
incessant care by which he was surrounded!—Herbert returned to
life, and his fever abated. He was besides subjected to a severe
diet, and consequently his weakness was and would be extreme; but
there was no want of refreshing drinks, and absolute rest was of
the greatest benefit to him. Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, and
Pencroft had become very skilful in dressing the lad's wounds. All
the linen in the house had been sacrificed. Herbert's wounds,
covered with compresses and lint, were pressed neither too much nor
too little, so as to cause their cicatrization without effecting
any inflammatory reaction. The reporter used extreme care in the
dressing, knowing well the importance of it, and repeating to his
companions that which most surgeons willingly admit, that it is
perhaps rarer to see a dressing well done than an operation well
performed.

In ten days, on the 22nd of November, Herbert was considerably
better. He had begun to take some nourishment.

The color was returning to his cheeks, and his bright eyes
smiled at his nurses. He talked a little, notwithstanding
Pencroft's efforts, who talked incessantly to prevent him from
beginning to speak, and told him the most improbable stories.
Herbert had questioned him on the subject of Ayrton, whom he was
astonished not to see near him, thinking that he was at the corral.
But the sailor, not wishing to distress Herbert, contented himself
by replying that Ayrton had rejoined Neb, so as to defend Granite
House.

"Humph!" said Pencroft, "these pirates! they are gentlemen who
have no right to any consideration! And the captain wanted to win
them by kindness! I'll send them some kindness, but in the shape of
a good bullet!"

"And have they not been seen again?" asked Herbert.

"No, my boy," answered the sailor, "but we shall find them, and
when you are cured we shall see if the cowards who strike us from
behind will dare to meet us face to face!"

"I am still very weak, my poor Pencroft!"

"Well! your strength will return gradually! What's a ball
through the chest? Nothing but a joke! I've seen many, and I don't
think much of them!"

At last things appeared to be going on well, and if no
complication occurred, Herbert's recovery might be regarded as
certain. But what would have been the condition of the colonists if
his state had been aggravated, —if, for example, the ball had
remained in his body, if his arm or his leg had had to be
amputated?
