It was also decided that no one should remain at Granite House.
Top and Jup themselves were to accompany the expedition; the
inaccessible dwelling needed no guard. The 14th of February, eve of
the departure, was consecrated entirely to repose, and—thanksgiving
addressed by the colonists to the Creator. A place in the cart was
reserved for Herbert, who, though thoroughly convalescent, was
still a little weak. The next morning, at daybreak, Cyrus Harding
took the necessary measures to protect Granite House from any
invasion. The ladders, which were formerly used for the ascent,
were brought to the Chimneys and buried deep in the sand, so that
they might be available on the return of the colonists, for the
machinery of the lift had been taken to pieces, and nothing of the
apparatus remained. Pencroft stayed the last in Granite House in
order to finish this work, and he then lowered himself down by
means of a double rope held below, and which, when once hauled
down, left no communication between the upper landing and the
beach.

The weather was magnificent.

"We shall have a warm day of it," said the reporter,
laughing.

"Pooh! Dr. Spilett," answered Pencroft, "we shall walk under the
shade of the trees and shan't even see the sun!"

"Forward!" said the engineer.

The cart was waiting on the beach before the Chimneys. The
reporter made Herbert take his place in it during the first hours
at least of the journey, and the lad was obliged to submit to his
doctor's orders.

Neb placed himself at the onagers' heads. Cyrus Harding, the
reporter, and the sailor, walked in front. Top bounded joyfully
along. Herbert offered a seat in his vehicle to Jup, who accepted
it without ceremony. The moment for departure had arrived, and the
little band set out.

The cart first turned the angle of the mouth of the Mercy, then,
having ascended the left bank for a mile, crossed the bridge, at
the other side of which commenced the road to Port Balloon, and
there the explorers, leaving this road on their left, entered the
cover of the immense woods which formed the region of the Far
West.

For the first two miles the widely scattered trees allowed the
cart to pass with ease; from time to time it became necessary to
cut away a few creepers and bushes, but no serious obstacle impeded
the progress of the colonists.

The thick foliage of the trees threw a grateful shade on the
ground. Deodars, Douglas firs, casuarinas, banksias, gum-trees,
dragon-trees, and other well-known species, succeeded each other
far as the eye could reach. The feathered tribes of the island were
all represented—grouse, jacamars, pheasants, lories, as well as the
chattering cockatoos, parrots, and paroquets. Agouties, kangaroos,
and capybaras fled swiftly at their approach; and all this reminded
the settlers of the first excursions they had made on their arrival
at the island.

"Nevertheless," observed Cyrus Harding, "I notice that these
creatures, both birds and quadrupeds, are more timid than formerly.
These woods have, therefore, been recently traversed by the
convicts, and we shall certainly find some traces of them."
