
And, in fact, in several places they could distinguish traces,
more or less recent, of the passage of a band of men—here branches
broken off the trees, perhaps to mark out the way; there the ashes
of a fire, and footprints in clayey spots; but nothing which
appeared to belong to a settled encampment.

The engineer had recommended his companions to refrain from
hunting. The reports of the firearms might give the alarm to the
convicts, who were, perhaps, roaming through the forest. Moreover,
the hunters would necessarily ramble some distance from the cart,
which it was dangerous to leave unguarded.

In the afterpart of the day, when about six miles from Granite
House, their progress became much more difficult. In order to make
their way through some thickets, they were obliged to cut down
trees. Before entering such places Harding was careful to send in
Top and Jup, who faithfully accomplished their commission, and when
the dog and orang returned without giving any warning, there was
evidently nothing to fear, either from convicts or wild beasts, two
varieties of the animal kingdom, whose ferocious instincts placed
them on the same level. On the evening of the first day the
colonists encamped about nine miles from Granite House, on the
border of a little stream falling into the Mercy, and of the
existence of which they had till then been ignorant; it evidently,
however, belonged to the hydiographical system to which the soil
owed its astonishing fertility. The settlers made a hearty meal,
for their appetites were sharpened, and measures were then taken
that the night might be passed in safety. If the engineer had had
only to deal with wild beasts, jaguars or others, he would have
simply lighted fires all around his camp, which would have sufficed
for its defense; but the convicts would be rather attracted than
terrified by the flames, and it was, therefore, better to be
surrounded by the profound darkness of night.

The watch was, however, carefully organized. Two of the settlers
were to watch together, and every two hours it was agreed that they
should be relieved by their comrades. And so, notwithstanding his
wish to the contrary, Herbert was exempted from guard. Pencroft and
Gideon Spilett in one party, the engineer and Neb in another,
mounted guard in turns over the camp.

The night, however, was but of few hours. The darkness was due
rather to the thickness of the foliage than to the disappearance of
the sun. The silence was scarcely disturbed by the howling of
jaguars and the chattering of the monkeys, the latter appearing to
particularly irritate Master Jup. The night passed without
incident, and on the next day, the 15th of February, the journey
through the forest, tedious rather than difficult, was continued.
This day they could not accomplish more than six miles, for every
moment they were obliged to cut a road with their hatchets.

Like true settlers, the colonists spared the largest and most
beautiful trees, which would besides have cost immense labor to
fell, and the small ones only were sacrificed, but the result was
that the road took a very winding direction, and lengthened itself
by numerous detours.

During the day Herbert discovered several new specimens not
before met with in the island, such as the tree-fern, with its
leaves spread out like the waters of a fountain, locust-trees, on
the long pods of which the onagers browsed greedily, and which
supplied a sweet pulp of excellent flavor. There, too, the
colonists again found groups of magnificent kauries, their
cylindrical trunks, crowded with a cone of verdure, rising to a
height of two hundred feet. These were the tree-kings of New
Zealand, as celebrated as the cedars of Lebanon.

As to the fauna, there was no addition to those species already
known to the hunters. Nevertheless, they saw, though unable to get
near them, a couple of those large birds peculiar to Australia, a
sort of cassowary, called emu, five feet in height, and with brown
plumage, which belong to the tribe of waders. Top darted after them
as fast as his four legs could carry him, but the emus distanced
him with ease, so prodigious was their speed.

As to the traces left by the convicts, a few more were
discovered. Some footprints found near an apparently recently
extinguished fire were attentively examined by the settlers. By
measuring them one after the other, according to their length and
breadth, the marks of five men's feet were easily distinguished.
The five convicts had evidently camped on this spot; but,—and this
was the object of so minute an examination,—a sixth footprint could
not be discovered, which in that case would have been that of
Ayrton.

"Ayrton was not with them!" said Herbert.

