


Chapter

12

&#160;


The next day, the 18th of February, was devoted to the
exploration of all that wooded region forming the shore from
Reptile End to Falls River. The colonists were able to search this
forest thoroughly, for, as it was comprised between the two shores
of the Serpentine Peninsula, it was only from three to four miles
in breadth. The trees, both by their height and their thick
foliage, bore witness to the vegetative power of the soil, more
astonishing here than in any other part of the island. One might
have said that a corner from the virgin forests of America or
Africa had been transported into this temperate zone. This led them
to conclude that the superb vegetation found a heat in this soil,
damp in its upper layer, but warmed in the interior by volcanic
fires, which could not belong to a temperate climate. The most
frequently occurring trees were knaries and eucalypti of gigantic
dimensions.

But the colonists' object was not simply to admire the
magnificent vegetation. They knew already that in this respect
Lincoln Island would have been worthy to take the first rank in the
Canary group, to which the first name given was that of the Happy
Isles. Now, alas! their island no longer belonged to them entirely;
others had taken possession of it, miscreants polluted its shores,
and they must be destroyed to the last man.

No traces were found on the western coast, although they were
carefully sought for. No more footprints, no more broken branches,
no more deserted camps.

"This does not surprise me," said Cyrus Harding to his
companions. "The convicts first landed on the island in the
neighborhood of Flotsam Point, and they immediately plunged into
the Far West forests, after crossing Tadorn Marsh. They then
followed almost the same route that we took on leaving Granite
House. This explains the traces we found in the wood. But, arriving
on the shore, the convicts saw at once that they would discover no
suitable retreat there, and it was then that, going northwards
again, they came upon the corral."

"Where they have perhaps returned," said Pencroft.

"I do not think so," answered the engineer, "for they would
naturally suppose that our researches would be in that direction.
The corral is only a storehouse to them, and not a definitive
encampment."

