
"If the dog is found, the master will be found also!" said the
reporter.

"God grant it!" responded Herbert. "Let us set off! Top will
guide us!"

Pencroft did not make any objection. He felt that Top's arrival
contradicted his conjectures. "Come along then!" said he.

Pencroft carefully covered the embers on the hearth. He placed a
few pieces of wood among them, so as to keep in the fire until
their return. Then, preceded by the dog, who seemed to invite them
by short barks to come with him, and followed by the reporter and
the boy, he dashed out, after having put up in his handkerchief the
remains of the supper.

The storm was then in all its violence, and perhaps at its
height. Not a single ray of light from the moon pierced through the
clouds. To follow a straight course was difficult. It was best to
rely on Top's instinct. They did so. The reporter and Herbert
walked behind the dog, and the sailor brought up the rear. It was
impossible to exchange a word. The rain was not very heavy, but the
wind was terrific.

However, one circumstance favored the seaman and his two
companions. The wind being southeast, consequently blew on their
backs. The clouds of sand, which otherwise would have been
insupportable, from being received behind, did not in consequence
impede their progress. In short, they sometimes went faster than
they liked, and had some difficulty in keeping their feet; but hope
gave them strength, for it was not at random that they made their
way along the shore. They had no doubt that Neb had found his
master, and that he had sent them the faithful dog. But was the
engineer living, or had Neb only sent for his companions that they
might render the last duties to the corpse of the unfortunate
Harding?

After having passed the precipice, Herbert, the reporter, and
Pencroft prudently stepped aside to stop and take breath. The turn
of the rocks sheltered them from the wind, and they could breathe
after this walk or rather run of a quarter of an hour.

They could now hear and reply to each other, and the lad having
pronounced the name of Cyrus Harding, Top gave a few short barks,
as much as to say that his master was saved.

"Saved, isn't he?" repeated Herbert; "saved, Top?"

And the dog barked in reply.

