Under the trees, thanks to the thickness of their foliage, the
obscurity rendered any object invisible beyond a radius of from
thirty to forty feet. The reporter and Pencroft, halting at any
suspicious sound, advanced with great caution.

They walked a little distance apart from each other so as to
offer a less mark for a shot. And, to tell the truth, they expected
every moment to hear a report. Five minutes after leaving the cart,
Gideon Spilett and Pencroft arrived at the edge of the wood before
the clearing beyond which rose the palisade.

They stopped. A few straggling beams still fell on the field
clear of trees. Thirty feet distant was the gate of the corral,
which appeared to be closed. This thirty feet, which it was
necessary to cross from the wood to the palisade, constituted the
dangerous zone, to borrow a ballistic term: in fact, one or more
bullets fired from behind the palisade might knock over any one who
ventured on to this zone. Gideon Spilett and the sailor were not
men to draw back, but they knew that any imprudence on their part,
of which they would be the first victims, would fall afterwards on
their companions. If they themselves were killed, what would become
of Harding, Neb, and Herbert?

But Pencroft, excited at feeling himself so near the corral
where he supposed the convicts had taken refuge, was about to press
forward, when the reporter held him back with a grasp of iron.

"In a few minutes it will be quite dark," whispered Spilett in
the sailor's ear, "then will be the time to act."

Pencroft, convulsively clasping the butt-end of his gun,
restrained his energies, and waited, swearing to himself.

Soon the last of the twilight faded away. Darkness, which seemed
as if it issued from the dense forest, covered the clearing. Mount
Franklin rose like an enormous screen before the western horizon,
and night spread rapidly over all, as it does in regions of low
latitudes. Now was the time.

The reporter and Pencroft, since posting themselves on the edge
of the wood, had not once lost sight of the palisade. The corral
appeared to be absolutely deserted. The top of the palisade formed
a line, a little darker than the surrounding shadow, and nothing
disturbed its distinctness. Nevertheless, if the convicts were
there, they must have posted one of their number to guard against
any surprise.

Spilett grasped his companion's hand, and both crept towards the
corral, their guns ready to fire.

They reached the gate without the darkness being illuminated by
a single ray of light.

Pencroft tried to push open the gate, which, as the reporter and
he had supposed, was closed. However, the sailor was able to
ascertain that the outer bars had not been put up. It might, then,
be concluded that the convicts were there in the corral, and that
very probably they had fastened the gate in such a way that it
could not be forced open.
