They once more set out. The tide began to rise, and urged by the
wind it threatened to be unusually high, as it was a spring tide.
Great billows thundered against the reef with such violence that
they probably passed entirely over the islet, then quite invisible.
The mole no longer protected the coast, which was directly exposed
to the attacks of the open sea.

As soon as the sailor and his companions left the precipice, the
wind struck them again with renewed fury. Though bent under the
gale they walked very quickly, following Top, who did not hesitate
as to what direction to take.

They ascended towards the north, having on their left an
interminable extent of billows, which broke with a deafening noise,
and on their right a dark country, the aspect of which it was
impossible to guess. But they felt that it was comparatively flat,
for the wind passed completely over them, without being driven back
as it was when it came in contact with the cliff.

At four o'clock in the morning, they reckoned that they had
cleared about five miles. The clouds were slightly raised, and the
wind, though less damp, was very sharp and cold. Insufficiently
protected by their clothing, Pencroft, Herbert and Spilett suffered
cruelly, but not a complaint escaped their lips. They were
determined to follow Top, wherever the intelligent animal wished to
lead them.

Towards five o'clock day began to break. At the zenith, where
the fog was less thick, gray shades bordered the clouds; under an
opaque belt, a luminous line clearly traced the horizon. The crests
of the billows were tipped with a wild light, and the foam regained
its whiteness. At the same time on the left the hilly parts of the
coast could be seen, though very indistinctly.

At six o'clock day had broken. The clouds rapidly lifted. The
seaman and his companions were then about six miles from the
Chimneys. They were following a very flat shore bounded by a reef
of rocks, whose heads scarcely emerged from the sea, for they were
in deep water. On the left, the country appeared to be one vast
extent of sandy downs, bristling with thistles. There was no cliff,
and the shore offered no resistance to the ocean but a chain of
irregular hillocks. Here and there grew two or three trees,
inclined towards the west, their branches projecting in that
direction. Quite behind, in the southwest, extended the border of
the forest.

At this moment, Top became very excited. He ran forward, then
returned, and seemed to entreat them to hasten their steps. The dog
then left the beach, and guided by his wonderful instinct, without
showing the least hesitation, went straight in among the downs.
They followed him. The country appeared an absolute desert. Not a
living creature was to be seen.

The downs, the extent of which was large, were composed of
hillocks and even of hills, very irregularly distributed. They
resembled a Switzerland modeled in sand, and only an amazing
instinct could have possibly recognized the way.

Five minutes after having left the beach, the reporter and his
two companions arrived at a sort of excavation, hollowed out at the
back of a high mound. There Top stopped, and gave a loud, clear
bark. Spilett, Herbert, and Pencroft dashed into the cave.

Neb was there, kneeling beside a body extended on a bed of
grass.

The body was that of the engineer, Cyrus Harding.
