But from that moment Ayrton was exposed to the importunities of
his former accomplices. They wished him to join them again, and
relied upon his aid to enable them to gain possession of Granite
House, to penetrate into that hitherto inaccessible dwelling, and
to become masters of the island, after murdering the colonists!

Ayrton remained firm. The once convict, now repentant and
pardoned, would rather die than betray his companions.
Ayrton—bound, gagged, and closely watched—lived in this cave for
four months.

Nevertheless the convicts had discovered the corral a short time
after their arrival in the island, and since then they had
subsisted on Ayrton's stores, but did not live at the corral.

On the 11th of November, two of the villains, surprised by the
colonists' arrival, fired at Herbert, and one of them returned,
boasting of having killed one of the inhabitants of the island; but
he returned alone. His companion, as is known, fell by Cyrus
Harding's dagger.

Ayrton's anxiety and despair may be imagined when he learned the
news of Herbert's death. The settlers were now only four, and, as
it seemed, at the mercy of the convicts. After this event, and
during all the time that the colonists, detained by Herbert's
illness, remained in the corral, the pirates did not leave their
cavern, and even after they had pillaged the plateau of Prospect
Heights, they did not think it prudent to abandon it.

The ill-treatment inflicted on Ayrton was now redoubled. His
hands and feet still bore the bloody marks of the cords which bound
him day and night. Every moment he expected to be put to death, nor
did it appear possible that he could escape.

Matters remained thus until the third week of February. The
convicts, still watching for a favorable opportunity, rarely
quitted their retreat, and only made a few hunting excursions,
either to the interior of the island, or the south coast.

Ayrton had no further news of his friends, and relinquished all
hope of ever seeing them again. At last, the unfortunate man,
weakened by ill- treatment, fell into a prostration so profound
that sight and hearing failed him. From that moment, that is to
say, since the last two days, he could give no information whatever
of what had occurred.

"But, Captain Harding," he added, "since I was imprisoned in
that cavern, how is it that I find myself in the corral?"

"How is it that the convicts are lying yonder dead, in the
middle of the enclosure?" answered the engineer.

"Dead!" cried Ayrton, half rising from his bed, notwithstanding
his weakness.
