"There it is!" said he.

This wire lay along the ground, and was surrounded with an
isolating substance like a submarine cable, so as to assure the
free transmission of the current. It appeared to pass through the
wood and the southern spurs of the mountain, and consequently it
ran towards the west.

"Follow it!" said Cyrus Harding.

And the settlers immediately pressed forward, guided by the
wire.

The thunder continued to roar with such violence that not a word
could be heard. However, there was no occasion for speaking, but to
get forward as fast as possible.

Cyrus Harding and his companions then climbed the spur rising
between the corral valley and that of Falls River, which they
crossed at its narrowest part. The wire, sometimes stretched over
the lower branches of the trees, sometimes lying on the ground,
guided them surely. The engineer had supposed that the wire would
perhaps stop at the bottom of the valley, and that the stranger's
retreat would be there.

Nothing of the sort. They were obliged to ascend the
south-western spur, and re-descend on that arid plateau terminated
by the strangely-wild basalt cliff. From time to time one of the
colonists stooped down and felt for the wire with his hands; but
there was now no doubt that the wire was running directly towards
the sea. There, to a certainty, in the depths of those rocks, was
the dwelling so long sought for in vain.

The sky was literally on fire. Flash succeeded flash. Several
struck the summit of the volcano in the midst of the thick smoke.
It appeared there as if the mountain was vomiting flame. At a few
minutes to eleven the colonists arrived on the high cliff
overlooking the ocean to the west. The wind had risen. The surf
roared 500 feet below.

Harding calculated that they had gone a mile and a half from the
corral.

At this point the wire entered among the rocks, following the
steep side of a narrow ravine. The settlers followed it at the risk
of occasioning a fall of the slightly-balanced rocks, and being
dashed into the sea. The descent was extremely perilous, but they
did not think of the danger; they were no longer masters of
themselves, and an irresistible attraction drew them towards this
mysterious place as the magnet draws iron.

Thus they almost unconsciously descended this ravine, which even
in broad daylight would have been considered impracticable.
