
"Either the cavern will be completely dry," replied Harding,
"and in that case we can traverse it on foot, or it will not be
dry, and some means of transport will be put at our disposal."

An hour passed. All climbed down through the rain to the level
of the sea. There was now eight feet of the opening above the
water. It was like the arch of a bridge, under which rushed the
foaming water.

Leaning forward, the engineer saw a black object floating on the
water. He drew it towards him. It was a boat, moored to some
interior projection of the cave. This boat was iron-plated. Two
oars lay at the bottom.

"Jump in!" said Harding.

In a moment the settlers were in the boat. Neb and Ayrton took
the oars, Pencroft the rudder. Cyrus Harding in the bows, with the
lantern, lighted the way.

The elliptical roof, under which the boat at first passed,
suddenly rose; but the darkness was too deep, and the light of the
lantern too slight, for either the extent, length, height, or depth
of the cave to be ascertained. Solemn silence reigned in this
basaltic cavern. Not a sound could penetrate into it, even the
thunder peals could not pierce its thick sides.

Such immense caves exist in various parts of the world, natural
crypts dating from the geological epoch of the globe. Some are
filled by the sea; others contain entire lakes in their sides. Such
is Fingal's Cave, in the island of Staffa, one of the Hebrides;
such are the caves of Morgat, in the bay of Douarnenez, in
Brittany, the caves of Bonifacio, in Corsica, those of Lyse-Fjord,
in Norway; such are the immense Mammoth caverns in Kentucky, 500
feet in height, and more than twenty miles in length! In many parts
of the globe, nature has excavated these caverns, and preserved
them for the admiration of man.

Did the cavern which the settlers were now exploring extend to
the center of the island? For a quarter of an hour the boat had
been advancing, making detours, indicated to Pencroft by the
engineer in short sentences, when all at once,—

"More to the right!" he commanded.

The boat, altering its course, came up alongside the right wall.
The engineer wished to see if the wire still ran along the
side.

