
From the age of ten years to that of thirty Prince Dakkar,
endowed by Nature with her richest gifts of intellect, accumulated
knowledge of every kind, and in science, literature, and art his
researches were extensive and profound.

He traveled over the whole of Europe. His rank and fortune
caused him to be everywhere sought after; but the pleasures of the
world had for him no attractions. Though young and possessed of
every personal advantage, he was ever grave—somber even—devoured by
an unquenchable thirst for knowledge, and cherishing in the
recesses of his heart the hope that he might become a great and
powerful ruler of a free and enlightened people.

Still, for long the love of science triumphed over all other
feelings. He became an artist deeply impressed by the marvels of
art, a philosopher to whom no one of the higher sciences was
unknown, a statesman versed in the policy of European courts. To
the eyes of those who observed him superficially he might have
passed for one of those cosmopolitans, curious of knowledge, but
disdaining action; one of those opulent travelers, haughty and
cynical, who move incessantly from place to place, and are of no
country.

The history of Captain Nemo has, in fact, been published under
the title of "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea." Here,
therefore, will apply the observation already made as to the
adventures of Ayrton with regard to the discrepancy of dates.
Readers should therefore refer to the note already published on
this point.

This artist, this philosopher, this man was, however, still
cherishing the hope instilled into him from his earliest days.

Prince Dakkar returned to Bundelkund in the year 1849. He
married a noble Indian lady, who was imbued with an ambition not
less ardent than that by which he was inspired. Two children were
born to them, whom they tenderly loved. But domestic happiness did
not prevent him from seeking to carry out the object at which he
aimed. He waited an opportunity. At length, as he vainly fancied,
it presented itself.

Instigated by princes equally ambitious and less sagacious and
more unscrupulous than he was, the people of India were persuaded
that they might successfully rise against their English rulers, who
had brought them out of a state of anarchy and constant warfare and
misery, and had established peace and prosperity in their country.
Their ignorance and gross superstition made them the facile tools
of their designing chiefs.

In 1857 the great sepoy revolt broke out. Prince Dakkar, under
the belief that he should thereby have the opportunity of attaining
the object of his long-cherished ambition, was easily drawn into
it. He forthwith devoted his talents and wealth to the service of
this cause. He aided it in person; he fought in the front ranks; he
risked his life equally with the humblest of the wretched and
misguided fanatics; he was ten times wounded in twenty engagements,
seeking death but finding it not, but at length the sanguinary
rebels were utterly defeated, and the atrocious mutiny was brought
to an end.

Never before had the British power in India been exposed to such
danger, and if, as they had hoped, the sepoys had received
assistance from without, the influence and supremacy in Asia of the
United Kingdom would have been a thing of the past.

The name of Prince Dakkar was at that time well known. He had
fought openly and without concealment. A price was set upon his
head, but he managed to escape from his pursuers.

