
Whatever might be the sailor's opinion, the expedition projected
by the engineer was settled for the next day. Herbert wished to
accompany Cyrus Harding, but he would not vex Pencroft by his
absence.

The next day, at dawn, Cyrus Harding and Ayrton, mounting the
cart drawn by two onagers, took the road to the corral and set off
at a round trot.

Above the forest were passing large clouds, to which the crater
of Mount Franklin incessantly added fuliginous matter. These
clouds, which rolled heavily in the air, were evidently composed of
heterogeneous substances. It was not alone from the volcano that
they derived their strange opacity and weight. Scoriae, in a state
of dust, like powdered pumice-stone, and grayish ashes as small as
the finest feculae, were held in suspension in the midst of their
thick folds. These ashes are so fine that they have been observed
in the air for whole months. After the eruption of 1783 in Iceland
for upwards of a year the atmosphere was thus charged with volcanic
dust through which the rays of the sun were only with difficulty
discernible.

But more often this pulverized matter falls, and this happened
on the present occasion. Cyrus Harding and Ayrton had scarcely
reached the corral when a sort of black snow like fine gunpowder
fell, and instantly changed the appearance of the soil. Trees,
meadows, all disappeared beneath a covering several inches in
depth. But, very fortunately, the wind blew from the northeast, and
the greater part of the cloud dissolved itself over the sea.

"This is very singular, Captain Harding," said Ayrton.

"It is very serious," replied the engineer. "This powdered
pumice-stone, all this mineral dust, proves how grave is the
convulsion going forward in the lower depths of the volcano."

"But can nothing be done?"

"Nothing, except to note the progress of the phenomenon. Do you,
therefore, Ayrton, occupy yourself with the necessary work at the
corral. In the meantime I will ascend just beyond the source of Red
Creek and examine the condition of the mountain upon its northern
aspect. Then—"

"Well, Captain Harding?"

"Then we will pay a visit to Dakkar Grotto. I wish to inspect
it. At any rate I will come back for you in two hours."

