Ayrton then proceeded to enter the corral, and, while awaiting
the engineer's return, busied himself with the musmons and goats
which seemed to feel a certain uneasiness in presence of these
first signs of an eruption.

Meanwhile Cyrus Harding ascended the crest of the eastern spur,
passed Red Creek, and arrived at the spot where he and his
companions had discovered a sulphurous spring at the time of their
first exploration.

How changed was everything! Instead of a single column of smoke
he counted thirteen, forced through the soil as if violently
propelled by some piston. It was evident that the crust of the
earth was subjected in this part of the globe to a frightful
pressure. The atmosphere was saturated with gases and carbonic
acid, mingled with aqueous vapors. Cyrus Harding felt the volcanic
tufa with which the plain was strewn, and which was but pulverized
cinders hardened into solid blocks by time, tremble beneath him,
but he could discover no traces of fresh lava.

The engineer became more assured of this when he observed all
the northern part of Mount Franklin. Pillars of smoke and flame
escaped from the crater; a hail of scoriae fell on the ground; but
no current of lava burst from the mouth of the volcano, which
proved that the volcanic matter had not yet attained the level of
the superior orifice of the central shaft.

"But I would prefer that it were so," said Cyrus Harding to
himself. "At any rate, I should then know that the lava had
followed its accustomed track. who can say that it may not take a
new course? But the danger does not consist in that! Captain Nemo
foresaw it clearly! No, the danger does not lie there!"

Cyrus Harding advanced towards the enormous causeway whose
prolongation enclosed the narrow Shark Gulf. He could now
sufficiently examine on this side the ancient channels of the lava.
There was no doubt in his mind that the most recent eruption had
occurred at a far-distant epoch.

He then returned by the same way, listening attentively to the
subterranean mutterings which rolled like long-continued thunder,
interrupted by deafening explosions. At nine in the morning he
reached the corral.

Ayrton awaited him.

"The animals are cared for, Captain Harding," said Ayrton.

"Good, Ayrton."

"They seem uneasy, Captain Harding."
