"It is here, Captain Harding," replied Ayrton, drawing towards
him the fragile craft, which was protected by the arch of the
vault.

"On board, Ayrton!"

The two colonists stepped into the boat. A slight undulation of
the waves carried it farther under the low arch of the crypt, and
there Ayrton, with the aid of flint and steel, lighted the lamp. He
then took the oars, and the lamp having been placed in the bow of
the boat, so that its rays fell before them, Cyrus Harding took the
helm and steered through the shades of the grotto.

The "Nautilus" was there no longer to illuminate the cavern with
its electric light. Possibly it might not yet be extinguished, but
no ray escaped from the depths of the abyss in which reposed all
that was mortal of Captain Nemo.

The light afforded by the lamp, although feeble, nevertheless
enabled the engineer to advance slowly, following the wall of the
cavern. A deathlike silence reigned under the vaulted roof, or at
least in the anterior portion, for soon Cyrus Harding distinctly
heard the rumbling which proceeded from the bowels of the
mountain.

"That comes from the volcano," he said.

Besides these sounds, the presence of chemical combinations was
soon betrayed by their powerful odor, and the engineer and his
companion were almost suffocated by sulphurous vapors.

"This is what Captain Nemo feared," murmured Cyrus Harding,
changing countenance. "We must go to the end, notwithstanding."

"Forward!" replied Ayrton, bending to his oars and directing the
boat towards the head of the cavern.

Twenty-five minutes after entering the mouth of the grotto the
boat reached the extreme end.

Cyrus Harding then, standing up, cast the light of the lamp upon
the walls of the cavern which separated it from the central shaft
of the volcano. What was the thickness of this wall? It might be
ten feet or a hundred feet—it was impossible to say. But the
subterranean sounds were too perceptible to allow of the
supposition that it was of any great thickness.
