
The explanation of this fact could only be produced from the
engineer's own lips, and they must wait for that till speech
returned. Rubbing had re-established the circulation of the blood.
Cyrus Harding moved his arm again, then his head, and a few
incomprehensible words escaped him.

Neb, who was bending over him, spoke, but the engineer did not
appear to hear, and his eyes remained closed. Life was only
exhibited in him by movement, his senses had not as yet been
restored.

Pencroft much regretted not having either fire, or the means of
procuring it, for he had, unfortunately, forgotten to bring the
burnt linen, which would easily have ignited from the sparks
produced by striking together two flints. As to the engineer's
pockets, they were entirely empty, except that of his waistcoat,
which contained his watch. It was necessary to carry Harding to the
Chimneys, and that as soon as possible. This was the opinion of
all.

Meanwhile, the care which was lavished on the engineer brought
him back to consciousness sooner than they could have expected. The
water with which they wetted his lips revived him gradually.
Pencroft also thought of mixing with the water some moisture from
the titra's flesh which he had brought. Herbert ran to the beach
and returned with two large bivalve shells. The sailor concocted
something which he introduced between the lips of the engineer, who
eagerly drinking it opened his eyes.

Neb and the reporter were leaning over him.

"My master! my master!" cried Neb.

The engineer heard him. He recognized Neb and Spilett, then his
other two companions, and his hand slightly pressed theirs.

A few words again escaped him, which showed what thoughts were,
even then, troubling his brain. This time he was understood.
Undoubtedly they were the same words he had before attempted to
utter.

"Island or continent?" he murmured.

"Bother the continent," cried Pencroft hastily; "there is time
enough to see about that, captain! we don't care for anything,
provided you are living."

