
Thus it happened that the wild animals, jaguars, wild boars,
capybaras, koalas, and game of every kind, mad with terror, had
fled to the banks of the Mercy and to the Tadorn Marsh, beyond the
road to Port Balloon. But the colonists were too much occupied with
their task to pay any attention to even the most formidable of
these animals. They had abandoned Granite House, and would not even
take shelter at the Chimneys, but encamped under a tent, near the
mouth of the Mercy.

Each day Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett ascended the plateau
of Prospect Heights. Sometimes Herbert accompanied them, but never
Pencroft, who could not bear to look upon the prospect of the
island now so utterly devastated.

It was, in truth, a heart-rending spectacle. All the wooded part
of the island was now completely bare. One single clump of green
trees raised their heads at the extremity of Serpentine Peninsula.
Here and there were a few grotesque blackened and branchless
stumps. The side of the devastated forest was even more barren than
Tadorn Marsh. The eruption of lava had been complete. Where
formerly sprang up that charming verdure, the soil was now nothing
but a savage mass of volcanic tufa. In the valleys of the Falls and
Mercy rivers no drop of water now flowed towards the sea, and
should Lake Grant be entirely dried up, the colonists would have no
means of quenching their thirst. But, fortunately the lava had
spared the southern corner of the lake, containing all that
remained of the drinking water of the island. Towards the northwest
stood out the rugged and well-defined outlines of the sides of the
volcano, like a gigantic claw hovering over the island. What a sad
and fearful sight, and how painful to the colonists, who, from a
fertile domain covered with forests, irrigated by watercourses, and
enriched by the produce of their toils, found themselves, as it
were, transported to a desolate rock, upon which, but for their
reserves of provisions, they could not even gather the means of
subsistence!

"It is enough to break one's heart!" said Gideon Spilett, one
day.

"Yes, Spilett," answered the engineer. "May God grant us the
time to complete this vessel, now our sole refuge!"

"Do not you think, Cyrus, that the violence of the eruption has
somewhat lessened? The volcano still vomits forth lava, but
somewhat less abundantly, if I mistake not."

"It matters little," answered Cyrus Harding. "The fire is still
burning in the interior of the mountain, and the sea may break in
at any moment. We are in the condition of passengers whose ship is
devoured by a conflagration which they cannot extinguish, and who
know that sooner or later the flames must reach the
powder-magazine. To work, Spilett, to work, and let us not lose an
hour!"

During eight days more, that is to say until the 7th of
February, the lava continued to flow, but the eruption was confined
within the previous limits. Cyrus Harding feared above all lest the
liquefied matter should overflow the shore, for in that event the
dockyard could not escape. Moreover, about this time the colonists
felt in the frame of the island vibrations which alarmed them to
the highest degree.

It was the 20th of February. Yet another month must elapse
before the vessel would be ready for sea. Would the island hold
together till then? The intention of Pencroft and Cyrus Harding was
to launch the vessel as soon as the hull should be complete. The
deck, the upperworks, the interior woodwork and the rigging might
be finished afterwards, but the essential point was that the
colonists should have an assured refuge away from the island.
Perhaps it might be even better to conduct the vessel to Port
Balloon, that is to say, as far as possible from the center of
eruption, for at the mouth of the Mercy, between the islet and the
wall of granite, it would run the risk of being crushed in the
event of any convulsion. All the exertions of the voyagers were
therefore concentrated upon the completion of the hull.

Thus the 3rd of March arrived, and they might calculate upon
launching the vessel in ten days.

