
"But do not dwell upon it just now, my dear Spilett, we will
talk about it by-and-by."

A moment after the others entered.

There was no doubt about it. The engineer's shoe fitted exactly
to the footmarks. It was therefore Cyrus Harding who had left them
on the sand.

"Come," said he, "I must have experienced this unconsciousness
which I attributed to Neb. I must have walked like a somnambulist,
without any knowledge of my steps, and Top must have guided me
here, after having dragged me from the waves… Come, Top! Come, old
dog!"

The magnificent animal bounded barking to his master, and
caresses were lavished on him. It was agreed that there was no
other way of accounting for the rescue of Cyrus Harding, and that
Top deserved all the honor of the affair.

Towards twelve o'clock, Pencroft having asked the engineer if
they could now remove him, Harding, instead of replying, and by an
effort which exhibited the most energetic will, got up. But he was
obliged to lean on the sailor, or he would have fallen.

"Well done!" cried Pencroft; "bring the captain's litter."

The litter was brought; the transverse branches had been covered
with leaves and long grass. Harding was laid on it, and Pencroft,
having taken his place at one end and Neb at the other, they
started towards the coast. There was a distance of eight miles to
be accomplished; but, as they could not go fast, and it would
perhaps be necessary to stop frequently, they reckoned that it
would take at least six hours to reach the Chimneys. The wind was
still strong, but fortunately it did not rain. Although lying down,
the engineer, leaning on his elbow, observed the coast,
particularly inland. He did not speak, but he gazed; and, no doubt,
the appearance of the country, with its inequalities of ground, its
forests, its various productions, were impressed on his mind.
However, after traveling for two hours, fatigue overcame him, and
he slept.

At half-past five the little band arrived at the precipice, and
a short time after at the Chimneys.

They stopped, and the litter was placed on the sand; Cyrus
Harding was sleeping profoundly, and did not awake.

