"Had you a burning-glass, sir?" asked Herbert of Harding.

"No, my boy," replied he, "but I made one."

And he showed the apparatus which served for a burning-glass. It
was simply two glasses which he had taken from his own and the
reporter's watches. Having filled them with water and rendered
their edges adhesive by means of a little clay, he thus fabricated
a regular burning-glass, which, concentrating the solar rays on
some very dry moss, soon caused it to blaze.

The sailor considered the apparatus; then he gazed at the
engineer without saying a word, only a look plainly expressed his
opinion that if Cyrus Harding was not a magician, he was certainly
no ordinary man. At last speech returned to him, and he cried,—

"Note that, Mr. Spilett, note that down on your paper!"

"It is noted," replied the reporter.

Then, Neb helping him, the seaman arranged the spit, and the
capybara, properly cleaned, was soon roasting like a suckling-pig
before a clear, crackling fire.

The Chimneys had again become more habitable, not only because
the passages were warmed by the fire, but because the partitions of
wood and mud had been re-established.

It was evident that the engineer and his companions had employed
their day well. Cyrus Harding had almost entirely recovered his
strength, and had proved it by climbing to the upper plateau. From
this point his eye, accustomed to estimate heights and distances,
was fixed for a long time on the cone, the summit of which he
wished to reach the next day. The mountain, situated about six
miles to the northwest, appeared to him to measure 3,500 feet above
the level of the sea. Consequently the gaze of an observer posted
on its summit would extend over a radius of at least fifty miles.
Therefore it was probable that Harding could easily solve the
question of "island or continent," to which he attached so much
importance.

They supped capitally. The flesh of the capybara was declared
excellent. The sargassum and the almonds of the stone-pine
completed the repast, during which the engineer spoke little. He
was preoccupied with projects for the next day.

Once or twice Pencroft gave forth some ideas upon what it would
be best to do; but Cyrus Harding, who was evidently of a methodical
mind, only shook his head without uttering a word.
