
"To-morrow," he repeated, "we shall know what we have to depend
upon, and we will act accordingly."

The meal ended, fresh armfuls of wood were thrown on the fire,
and the inhabitants of the Chimneys, including the faithful Top,
were soon buried in a deep sleep.

No incident disturbed this peaceful night, and the next day, the
29th of March, fresh and active they awoke, ready to undertake the
excursion which must determine their fate.

All was ready for the start. The remains of the capybara would
be enough to sustain Harding and his companions for at least
twenty-four hours.

Besides, they hoped to find more food on the way. As the glasses
had been returned to the watches of the engineer and reporter,
Pencroft burned a little linen to serve as tinder. As to flint,
that would not be wanting in these regions of Plutonic origin. It
was half-past seven in the morning when the explorers, armed with
sticks, left the Chimneys. Following Pencroft's advice, it appeared
best to take the road already traversed through the forest, and to
return by another route. It was also the most direct way to reach
the mountain. They turned the south angle and followed the left
bank of the river, which was abandoned at the point where it formed
an elbow towards the southwest. The path, already trodden under the
evergreen trees, was found, and at nine o'clock Cyrus Harding and
his companions had reached the western border of the forest. The
ground, till then, very little undulated, boggy at first, dry and
sandy afterwards, had a gentle slope, which ascended from the shore
towards the interior of the country. A few very timid animals were
seen under the forest-trees. Top quickly started them, but his
master soon called him back, for the time had not come to commence
hunting; that would be attended to later. The engineer was not a
man who would allow himself to be diverted from his fixed idea. It
might even have been said that he did not observe the country at
all, either in its configuration or in its natural productions, his
great aim being to climb the mountain before him, and therefore
straight towards it he went. At ten o'clock a halt of a few minutes
was made. On leaving the forest, the mountain system of the country
appeared before the explorers. The mountain was composed of two
cones; the first, truncated at a height of about two thousand five
hundred feet, was sustained by buttresses, which appeared to branch
out like the talons of an immense claw set on the ground. Between
these were narrow valleys, bristling with trees, the last clumps of
which rose to the top of the lowest cone. There appeared to be less
vegetation on that side of the mountain which was exposed to the
northeast, and deep fissures could be seen which, no doubt, were
watercourses.

On the first cone rested a second, slightly rounded, and placed
a little on one side, like a great round hat cocked over the ear. A
Scotchman would have said, "His bonnet was a thocht ajee." It
appeared formed of bare earth, here and there pierced by reddish
rocks.

They wished to reach the second cone, and proceeding along the
ridge of the spurs seemed to be the best way by which to gain
it.

"We are on volcanic ground," Cyrus Harding had said, and his
companions following him began to ascend by degrees on the back of
a spur, which, by a winding and consequently more accessible path,
joined the first plateau.

The ground had evidently been convulsed by subterranean force.
Here and there stray blocks, numerous debris of basalt and
pumice-stone, were met with. In isolated groups rose fir-trees,
which, some hundred feet lower, at the bottom of the narrow gorges,
formed massive shades almost impenetrable to the sun's rays.

During the first part of the ascent, Herbert remarked on the
footprints which indicated the recent passage of large animals.

