In fact, before them opened a deep hollow. It was the rugged
mouth of the crater, by which the eruptive liquid matter had
escaped at the periods when the volcano was still in activity.
Hardened lava and crusted scoria formed a sort of natural staircase
of large steps, which would greatly facilitate the ascent to the
summit of the mountain.

Harding took all this in at a glance, and without hesitating,
followed by the lad, he entered the enormous chasm in the midst of
an increasing obscurity.

There was still a height of a thousand feet to overcome. Would
the interior acclivities of the crater be practicable? It would
soon be seen. The persevering engineer resolved to continue his
ascent until he was stopped. Happily these acclivities wound up the
interior of the volcano and favored their ascent.

As to the volcano itself, it could not be doubted that it was
completely extinct. No smoke escaped from its sides; not a flame
could be seen in the dark hollows; not a roar, not a mutter, no
trembling even issued from this black well, which perhaps reached
far into the bowels of the earth. The atmosphere inside the crater
was filled with no sulphurous vapor. It was more than the sleep of
a volcano; it was its complete extinction. Cyrus Harding's attempt
would succeed.

Little by little, Herbert and he climbing up the sides of the
interior, saw the crater widen above their heads. The radius of
this circular portion of the sky, framed by the edge of the cone,
increased obviously. At each step, as it were, that the explorers
made, fresh stars entered the field of their vision. The
magnificent constellations of the southern sky shone resplendently.
At the zenith glittered the splendid Antares in the Scorpion, and
not far was Alpha Centauri, which is believed to be the nearest
star to the terrestrial globe. Then, as the crater widened,
appeared Fomalhaut of the Fish, the Southern Triangle, and lastly,
nearly at the Antarctic Pole, the glittering Southern Cross, which
replaces the Polar Star of the Northern Hemisphere.

It was nearly eight o'clock when Cyrus Harding and Herbert set
foot on the highest ridge of the mountain at the summit of the
cone.

It was then perfectly dark, and their gaze could not extend over
a radius of two miles. Did the sea surround this unknown land, or
was it connected in the west with some continent of the Pacific? It
could not yet be made out. Towards the west, a cloudy belt, clearly
visible at the horizon, increased the gloom, and the eye could not
discover if the sky and water were blended together in the same
circular line.

But at one point of the horizon a vague light suddenly appeared,
which descended slowly in proportion as the cloud mounted to the
zenith.

It was the slender crescent moon, already almost disappearing;
but its light was sufficient to show clearly the horizontal line,
then detached from the cloud, and the engineer could see its
reflection trembling for an instant on a liquid surface. Cyrus
Harding seized the lad's hand, and in a grave voice,—

"An island!" said he, at the moment when the lunar crescent
disappeared beneath the waves.


