


Chapter

11

&#160;


Half an hour later Cyrus Harding and Herbert had returned to the
encampment. The engineer merely told his companions that the land
upon which fate had thrown them was an island, and that the next
day they would consult. Then each settled himself as well as he
could to sleep, and in that rocky hole, at a height of two thousand
five hundred feet above the level of the sea, through a peaceful
night, the islanders enjoyed profound repose.

The next day, the 30th of March, after a hasty breakfast, which
consisted solely of the roasted tragopan, the engineer wished to
climb again to the summit of the volcano, so as more attentively to
survey the island upon which he and his companions were imprisoned
for life perhaps, should the island be situated at a great distance
from any land, or if it was out of the course of vessels which
visited the archipelagoes of the Pacific Ocean. This time his
companions followed him in the new exploration. They also wished to
see the island, on the productions of which they must depend for
the supply of all their wants.

It was about seven o'clock in the morning when Cyrus Harding,
Herbert, Pencroft, Gideon Spilett, and Neb quitted the encampment.
No one appeared to be anxious about their situation. They had faith
in themselves, doubtless, but it must be observed that the basis of
this faith was not the same with Harding as with his companions.
The engineer had confidence, because he felt capable of extorting
from this wild country everything necessary for the life of himself
and his companions; the latter feared nothing, just because Cyrus
Harding was with them. Pencroft especially, since the incident of
the relighted fire, would not have despaired for an instant, even
if he was on a bare rock, if the engineer was with him on the
rock.

"Pshaw," said he, "we left Richmond without permission from the
authorities! It will be hard if we don't manage to get away some
day or other from a place where certainly no one will detain
us!"

Cyrus Harding followed the same road as the evening before. They
went round the cone by the plateau which formed the shoulder, to
the mouth of the enormous chasm. The weather was magnificent. The
sun rose in a pure sky and flooded with his rays all the eastern
side of the mountain.

The crater was reached. It was just what the engineer had made
it out to be in the dark; that is to say, a vast funnel which
extended, widening, to a height of a thousand feet above the
plateau. Below the chasm, large thick streaks of lava wound over
the sides of the mountain, and thus marked the course of the
eruptive matter to the lower valleys which furrowed the northern
part of the island.

