
It was impossible to prevent the escape of gas, which rushed
through a large rent in the silk. By lightening the car of all the
articles which it contained, the passengers had been able to
prolong their suspension in the air for a few hours. But the
inevitable catastrophe could only be retarded, and if land did not
appear before night, voyagers, car, and balloon must to a certainty
vanish beneath the waves.

They now resorted to the only remaining expedient. They were
truly dauntless men, who knew how to look death in the face. Not a
single murmur escaped from their lips. They were determined to
struggle to the last minute, to do anything to retard their fall.
The car was only a sort of willow basket, unable to float, and
there was not the slightest possibility of maintaining it on the
surface of the sea.

Two more hours passed and the balloon was scarcely 400 feet
above the water.

At that moment a loud voice, the voice of a man whose heart was
inaccessible to fear, was heard. To this voice responded others not
less determined. "Is everything thrown out?" "No, here are still
2,000 dollars in gold." A heavy bag immediately plunged into the
sea. "Does the balloon rise?" "A little, but it will not be long
before it falls again." "What still remains to be thrown out?"
"Nothing." "Yes! the car!" "Let us catch hold of the net, and into
the sea with the car."

This was, in fact, the last and only mode of lightening the
balloon. The ropes which held the car were cut, and the balloon,
after its fall, mounted 2,000 feet. The five voyagers had hoisted
themselves into the net, and clung to the meshes, gazing at the
abyss.

The delicate sensibility of balloons is well known. It is
sufficient to throw out the lightest article to produce a
difference in its vertical position. The apparatus in the air is
like a balance of mathematical precision. It can be thus easily
understood that when it is lightened of any considerable weight its
movement will be impetuous and sudden. So it happened on this
occasion. But after being suspended for an instant aloft, the
balloon began to redescend, the gas escaping by the rent which it
was impossible to repair.

The men had done all that men could do. No human efforts could
save them now.

They must trust to the mercy of Him who rules the elements.

At four o'clock the balloon was only 500 feet above the surface
of the water.

A loud barking was heard. A dog accompanied the voyagers, and
was held pressed close to his master in the meshes of the net.

