"Is it a freshwater lake?" asked Pencroft.

"Certainly," replied the engineer, "for it must be fed by the
water which flows from the mountain."

"I see a little river which runs into it," said Herbert,
pointing out a narrow stream, which evidently took its source
somewhere in the west.

"Yes," said Harding; "and since this stream feeds the lake, most
probably on the side near the sea there is an outlet by which the
surplus water escapes. We shall see that on our return."

This little winding watercourse and the river already mentioned
constituted the water-system, at least such as it was displayed to
the eyes of the explorers. However, it was possible that under the
masses of trees which covered two-thirds of the island, forming an
immense forest, other rivers ran towards the sea. It might even be
inferred that such was the case, so rich did this region appear in
the most magnificent specimens of the flora of the temperate zones.
There was no indication of running water in the north, though
perhaps there might be stagnant water among the marshes in the
northeast; but that was all, in addition to the downs, sand, and
aridity which contrasted so strongly with the luxuriant vegetation
of the rest of the island.

The volcano did not occupy the central part; it rose, on the
contrary, in the northwestern region, and seemed to mark the
boundary of the two zones. At the southwest, at the south, and the
southeast, the first part of the spurs were hidden under masses of
verdure. At the north, on the contrary, one could follow their
ramifications, which died away on the sandy plains. It was on this
side that, at the time when the mountain was in a state of
eruption, the discharge had worn away a passage, and a large heap
of lava had spread to the narrow jaw which formed the northeastern
gulf.

Cyrus Harding and his companions remained an hour at the top of
the mountain. The island was displayed under their eyes, like a
plan in relief with different tints, green for the forests, yellow
for the sand, blue for the water. They viewed it in its
tout-ensemble, nothing remained concealed but the ground hidden by
verdure, the hollows of the valleys, and the interior of the
volcanic chasms.

One important question remained to be solved, and the answer
would have a great effect upon the future of the castaways.

Was the island inhabited?

It was the reporter who put this question, to which after the
close examination they had just made, the answer seemed to be in
the negative.

Nowhere could the work of a human hand be perceived. Not a group
of huts, not a solitary cabin, not a fishery on the shore. No smoke
curling in the air betrayed the presence of man. It is true, a
distance of nearly thirty miles separated the observers from the
extreme points, that is, of the tail which extended to the
southwest, and it would have been difficult, even to Pencroft's
eyes, to discover a habitation there. Neither could the curtain of
verdure, which covered three-quarters of the island, be raised to
see if it did not shelter some straggling village. But in general
the islanders live on the shores of the narrow spaces which emerge
above the waters of the Pacific, and this shore appeared to be an
absolute desert.
