
"I should prefer borrowing names from our country," said the
reporter, "which would remind us of America."

"Yes, for the principal ones," then said Cyrus Harding; "for
those of the bays and seas, I admit it willingly. We might give to
that vast bay on the east the name of Union Bay, for example; to
that large hollow on the south, Washington Bay; to the mountain
upon which we are standing, that of Mount Franklin; to that lake
which is extended under our eyes, that of Lake Grant; nothing could
be better, my friends. These names will recall our country, and
those of the great citizens who have honored it; but for the
rivers, gulfs, capes, and promontories, which we perceive from the
top of this mountain, rather let us choose names which will recall
their particular shape. They will impress themselves better on our
memory, and at the same time will be more practical. The shape of
the island is so strange that we shall not be troubled to imagine
what it resembles. As to the streams which we do not know as yet,
in different parts of the forest which we shall explore later, the
creeks which afterwards will he discovered, we can christen them as
we find them. What do you think, my friends?"

The engineer's proposal was unanimously agreed to by his
companions. The island was spread out under their eyes like a map,
and they had only to give names to all its angles and points.
Gideon Spilett would write them down, and the geographical
nomenclature of the island would be definitely adopted. First, they
named the two bays and the mountain, Union Bay, Washington Bay, and
Mount Franklin, as the engineer had suggested.

"Now," said the reporter, "to this peninsula at the southwest of
the island, I propose to give the name of Serpentine Peninsula, and
that of Reptile-end to the bent tail which terminates it, for it is
just like a reptile's tail."

"Adopted," said the engineer.

"Now," said Herbert, pointing to the other extremity of the
island, "let us call this gulf which is so singularly like a pair
of open jaws, Shark Gulf."

"Capital!" cried Pencroft, "and we can complete the resemblance
by naming the two parts of the jaws Mandible Cape."

"But there are two capes," observed the reporter.

"Well," replied Pencroft, "we can have North Mandible Cape and
South Mandible Cape."

"They are inscribed," said Spilett.

