"Perhaps," replied the engineer, "but we will begin by first
manufacturing some bows and arrows, and I don't doubt that you will
become as clever in the use of them as the Australian hunters."

"Bows and arrows!" said Pencroft scornfully. "That's all very
well for children!"

"Don't be proud, friend Pencroft," replied the reporter. "Bows
and arrows were sufficient for centuries to stain the earth with
blood. Powder is but a thing of yesterday, and war is as old as the
human race—unhappily."

"Faith, that's true, Mr. Spilett," replied the sailor, "and I
always speak too quickly. You must excuse me!"

Meanwhile, Herbert constant to his favorite science, Natural
History, reverted to the kangaroos, saying,—

"Besides, we had to deal just now with the species which is most
difficult to catch. They were giants with long gray fur; but if I
am not mistaken, there exist black and red kangaroos, rock
kangaroos, and rat kangaroos, which are more easy to get hold of.
It is reckoned that there are about a dozen species."

"Herbert," replied the sailor sententiously, "there is only one
species of kangaroos to me, that is 'kangaroo on the spit,' and
it's just the one we haven't got this evening!"

They could not help laughing at Master Pencroft's new
classification. The honest sailor did not hide his regret at being
reduced for dinner to the singing pheasants, but fortune once more
showed itself obliging to him.

In fact, Top, who felt that his interest was concerned went and
ferreted everywhere with an instinct doubled by a ferocious
appetite. It was even probable that if some piece of game did fall
into his clutches, none would be left for the hunters, if Top was
hunting on his own account; but Neb watched him and he did
well.

Towards three o'clock the dog disappeared in the brushwood and
gruntings showed that he was engaged in a struggle with some
animal. Neb rushed after him, and soon saw Top eagerly devouring a
quadruped, which ten seconds later would have been past recognizing
in Top's stomach. But fortunately the dog had fallen upon a brood,
and besides the victim he was devouring, two other rodents—the
animals in question belonged to that order—lay strangled on the
turf.

Neb reappeared triumphantly holding one of the rodents in each
hand. Their size exceeded that of a rabbit, their hair was yellow,
mingled with green spots, and they had the merest rudiments of
tails.
