
On the 6th of April, at daybreak, the engineer and his
companions were collected in the glade, at the place where they
were going to perform the operation of baking the bricks. Naturally
this had to be in the open air, and not in a kiln, or rather, the
agglomeration of bricks made an enormous kiln, which would bake
itself. The fuel, made of well-prepared fagots, was laid on the
ground and surrounded with several rows of dried bricks, which soon
formed an enormous cube, to the exterior of which they contrived
air- holes. The work lasted all day, and it was not till the
evening that they set fire to the fagots. No one slept that night,
all watching carefully to keep up the fire.

The operation lasted forty-eight hours, and succeeded perfectly.
It then became necessary to leave the smoking mass to cool, and
during this time Neb and Pencroft, guided by Cyrus Harding,
brought, on a hurdle made of interlaced branches, loads of
carbonate of lime and common stones, which were very abundant, to
the north of the lake. These stones, when decomposed by heat, made
a very strong quicklime, greatly increased by slacking, at least as
pure as if it had been produced by the calcination of chalk or
marble. Mixed with sand the lime made excellent mortar.

The result of these different works was, that, on the 9th of
April, the engineer had at his disposal a quantity of prepared lime
and some thousands of bricks.

Without losing an instant, therefore, they began the
construction of a kiln to bake the pottery, which was indispensable
for their domestic use. They succeeded without much difficulty.
Five days after, the kiln was supplied with coal, which the
engineer had discovered lying open to the sky towards the mouth of
the Red Creek, and the first smoke escaped from a chimney twenty
feet high. The glade was transformed into a manufactory, and
Pencroft was not far wrong in believing that from this kiln would
issue all the products of modern industry.

In the meantime what the settlers first manufactured was a
common pottery in which to cook their food. The chief material was
clay, to which Harding added a little lime and quartz. This paste
made regular "pipe-clay," with which they manufactured bowls, cups
molded on stones of a proper size, great jars and pots to hold
water, etc. The shape of these objects was clumsy and defective,
but after they had been baked in a high temperature, the kitchen of
the Chimneys was provided with a number of utensils, as precious to
the settlers as the most beautifully enameled china. We must
mention here that Pencroft, desirous to know if the clay thus
prepared was worthy of its name of pipe-clay, made some large
pipes, which he thought charming, but for which, alas! he had no
tobacco, and that was a great privation to Pencroft. "But tobacco
will come, like everything else!" he repeated, in a burst of
absolute confidence.

This work lasted till the 15th of April, and the time was well
employed. The settlers, having become potters, made nothing but
pottery. When it suited Cyrus Harding to change them into smiths,
they would become smiths. But the next day being Sunday, and also
Easter Sunday, all agreed to sanctify the day by rest. These
Americans were religious men, scrupulous observers of the precepts
of the Bible, and their situation could not but develop sentiments
of confidence towards the Author of all things.

On the evening of the 15th of April they returned to the
Chimneys, carrying with them the pottery, the furnace being
extinguished until they could put it to a new use. Their return was
marked by a fortunate incident; the engineer discovered a substance
which replaced tinder. It is known that a spongy, velvety flesh is
procured from a certain mushroom of the genus polyporous. Properly
prepared, it is extremely inflammable, especially when it has been
previously saturated with gunpowder, or boiled in a solution of
nitrate or chlorate of potash. But, till then, they had not found
any of these polypores or even any of the morels which could
replace them. On this day, the engineer, seeing a plant belonging
to the wormwood genus, the principal species of which are absinthe,
balm-mint, tarragon, etc., gathered several tufts, and, presenting
them to the sailor, said,—

"Here, Pencroft, this will please you."

Pencroft looked attentively at the plant, covered with long
silky hair, the leaves being clothed with soft down.

"What's that, captain?" asked Pencroft. "Is it tobacco?"

