
"I took the lamp from him, and I examined the machine very
thoroughly. It was indeed a gigantic one, and capable of exercising
enormous pressure. When I passed outside, however, and pressed down
the levers which controlled it, I knew at once by the whishing
sound that there was a slight leakage, which allowed a
regurgitation of water through one of the side cylinders. An
examination showed that one of the india-rubber bands which was
round the head of a driving-rod had shrunk so as not quite to fill
the socket along which it worked. This was clearly the cause of the
loss of power, and I pointed it out to my companions, who followed
my remarks very carefully and asked several practical questions as
to how they should proceed to set it right. When I had made it
clear to them, I returned to the main chamber of the machine and
took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity. It was obvious
at a glance that the story of the fuller's-earth was the merest
fabrication, for it would be absurd to suppose that so powerful an
engine could be designed for so inadequate a purpose. The walls
were of wood, but the floor consisted of a large iron trough, and
when I came to examine it I could see a crust of metallic deposit
all over it. I had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly
what it was when I heard a muttered exclamation in German and saw
the cadaverous face of the colonel looking down at me.

"'What are you doing there?' he asked.

"I felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as
that which he had told me. 'I was admiring your fuller's-earth,'
said I; 'I think that I should be better able to advise you as to
your machine if I knew what the exact purpose was for which it was
used.'

"The instant that I uttered the words I regretted the rashness
of my speech. His face set hard, and a baleful light sprang up in
his grey eyes.

"'Very well,' said he, 'you shall know all about the machine.'
He took a step backward, slammed the little door, and turned the
key in the lock. I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but
it was quite secure, and did not give in the least to my kicks and
shoves. 'Hullo!' I yelled. 'Hullo! Colonel! Let me out!'

"And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my
heart into my mouth. It was the clank of the levers and the swish
of the leaking cylinder. He had set the engine at work. The lamp
still stood upon the floor where I had placed it when examining the
trough. By its light I saw that the black ceiling was coming down
upon me, slowly, jerkily, but, as none knew better than myself,
with a force which must within a minute grind me to a shapeless
pulp. I threw myself, screaming, against the door, and dragged with
my nails at the lock. I implored the colonel to let me out, but the
remorseless clanking of the levers drowned my cries. The ceiling
was only a foot or two above my head, and with my hand upraised I
could feel its hard, rough surface. Then it flashed through my mind
that the pain of my death would depend very much upon the position
in which I met it. If I lay on my face the weight would come upon
my spine, and I shuddered to think of that dreadful snap. Easier
the other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve to lie and look up
at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me? Already I was
unable to stand erect, when my eye caught something which brought a
gush of hope back to my heart.

"I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron, the
walls were of wood. As I gave a last hurried glance around, I saw a
thin line of yellow light between two of the boards, which
broadened and broadened as a small panel was pushed backward. For
an instant I could hardly believe that here was indeed a door which
led away from death. The next instant I threw myself through, and
lay half-fainting upon the other side. The panel had closed again
behind me, but the crash of the lamp, and a few moments afterwards
the clang of the two slabs of metal, told me how narrow had been my
escape.

"I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist, and
I found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor,
while a woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand,
while she held a candle in her right. It was the same good friend
whose warning I had so foolishly rejected.

"'Come! come!' she cried breathlessly. 'They will be here in a
moment. They will see that you are not there. Oh, do not waste the
so-precious time, but come!'

"This time, at least, I did not scorn her advice. I staggered to
my feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding
stair. The latter led to another broad passage, and just as we
reached it we heard the sound of running feet and the shouting of
two voices, one answering the other from the floor on which we were
and from the one beneath. My guide stopped and looked about her
like one who is at her wit's end. Then she threw open a door which
led into a bedroom, through the window of which the moon was
shining brightly.

