
"How is the glass? Twenty-nine, I see. No wind, and not a cloud
in the sky. I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking,
and the sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel
abomination. I do not think that it is probable that I shall use
the carriage to-night."

Lestrade laughed indulgently. "You have, no doubt, already
formed your conclusions from the newspapers," he said. "The case is
as plain as a pikestaff, and the more one goes into it the plainer
it becomes. Still, of course, one can't refuse a lady, and such a
very positive one, too. She has heard of you, and would have your
opinion, though I repeatedly told her that there was nothing which
you could do which I had not already done. Why, bless my soul! here
is her carriage at the door."

He had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of
the most lovely young women that I have ever seen in my life. Her
violet eyes shining, her lips parted, a pink flush upon her cheeks,
all thought of her natural reserve lost in her overpowering
excitement and concern.

"Oh, Mr. Sherlock Holmes!" she cried, glancing from one to the
other of us, and finally, with a woman's quick intuition, fastening
upon my companion, "I am so glad that you have come. I have driven
down to tell you so. I know that James didn't do it. I know it, and
I want you to start upon your work knowing it, too. Never let
yourself doubt upon that point. We have known each other since we
were little children, and I know his faults as no one else does;
but he is too tender-hearted to hurt a fly. Such a charge is absurd
to anyone who really knows him."

"I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner," said Sherlock Holmes.
"You may rely upon my doing all that I can."

"But you have read the evidence. You have formed some
conclusion? Do you not see some loophole, some flaw? Do you not
yourself think that he is innocent?"

"I think that it is very probable."

"There, now!" she cried, throwing back her head and looking
defiantly at Lestrade. "You hear! He gives me hopes."

Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. "I am afraid that my colleague
has been a little quick in forming his conclusions," he said.

"But he is right. Oh! I know that he is right. James never did
it. And about his quarrel with his father, I am sure that the
reason why he would not speak about it to the coroner was because I
was concerned in it."

