
I took my way straight for the east coast of the island, for I
was determined to go down the sea side of the spit to avoid all
chance of observation from the anchorage. It was already late in
the afternoon, although still warm and sunny. As I continued to
thread the tall woods, I could hear from far before me not only the
continuous thunder of the surf, but a certain tossing of foliage
and grinding of boughs which showed me the sea breeze had set in
higher than usual. Soon cool draughts of air began to reach me, and
a few steps farther I came forth into the open borders of the
grove, and saw the sea lying blue and sunny to the horizon and the
surf tumbling and tossing its foam along the beach.

I have never seen the sea quiet round Treasure Island. The sun
might blaze overhead, the air be without a breath, the surface
smooth and blue, but still these great rollers would be running
along all the external coast, thundering and thundering by day and
night; and I scarce believe there is one spot in the island where a
man would be out of earshot of their noise.

I walked along beside the surf with great enjoyment, till,
thinking I was now got far enough to the south, I took the cover of
some thick bushes and crept warily up to the ridge of the spit.

Behind me was the sea, in front the anchorage. The sea breeze,
as though it had the sooner blown itself out by its unusual
violence, was already at an end; it had been succeeded by light,
variable airs from the south and south-east, carrying great banks
of fog; and the anchorage, under lee of Skeleton Island, lay still
and leaden as when first we entered it. The Hispaniola, in that
unbroken mirror, was exactly portrayed from the truck to the
waterline, the Jolly Roger hanging from her peak.

Alongside lay one of the gigs, Silver in the stern-sheets—him I
could always recognize—while a couple of men were leaning over the
stern bulwarks, one of them with a red cap—the very rogue that I
had seen some hours before stride-legs upon the palisade.
Apparently they were talking and laughing, though at that
distance—upwards of a mile—I could, of course, hear no word of what
was said. All at once there began the most horrid, unearthly
screaming, which at first startled me badly, though I had soon
remembered the voice of Captain Flint and even thought I could make
out the bird by her bright plumage as she sat perched upon her
master's wrist.

Soon after, the jolly-boat shoved off and pulled for shore, and
the man with the red cap and his comrade went below by the cabin
companion.

Just about the same time, the sun had gone down behind the
Spy-glass, and as the fog was collecting rapidly, it began to grow
dark in earnest. I saw I must lose no time if I were to find the
boat that evening.

The white rock, visible enough above the brush, was still some
eighth of a mile further down the spit, and it took me a goodish
while to get up with it, crawling, often on all fours, among the
scrub. Night had almost come when I laid my hand on its rough
sides. Right below it there was an exceedingly small hollow of
green turf, hidden by banks and a thick underwood about knee-deep,
that grew there very plentifully; and in the centre of the dell,
sure enough, a little tent of goat-skins, like what the gipsies
carry about with them in England.

I dropped into the hollow, lifted the side of the tent, and
there was Ben Gunn's boat—home-made if ever anything was home-made;
a rude, lop-sided framework of tough wood, and stretched upon that
a covering of goat-skin, with the hair inside. The thing was
extremely small, even for me, and I can hardly imagine that it
could have floated with a full-sized man. There was one thwart set
as low as possible, a kind of stretcher in the bows, and a double
paddle for propulsion.

I had not then seen a coracle, such as the ancient Britons made,
but I have seen one since, and I can give you no fairer idea of Ben
Gunn's boat than by saying it was like the first and the worst
coracle ever made by man. But the great advantage of the coracle it
certainly possessed, for it was exceedingly light and portable.

