To all this, as may be well supposed, I made no answer. They had
set me with my back against the wall, and I stood there, looking
Silver in the face, pluckily enough, I hope, to all outward
appearance, but with black despair in my heart.

Silver took a whiff or two of his pipe with great composure and
then ran on again.

"Now, you see, Jim, so be as you are here," says he, "I'll give
you a piece of my mind. I've always liked you, I have, for a lad of
spirit, and the picter of my own self when I was young and
handsome. I always wanted you to jine and take your share, and die
a gentleman, and now, my cock, you've got to. Cap'n Smollett's a
fine seaman, as I'll own up to any day, but stiff on discipline.
'Dooty is dooty,' says he, and right he is. Just you keep clear of
the cap'n. The doctor himself is gone dead again you—'ungrateful
scamp' was what he said; and the short and the long of the whole
story is about here: you can't go back to your own lot, for they
won't have you; and without you start a third ship's company all by
yourself, which might be lonely, you'll have to jine with Cap'n
Silver."

So far so good. My friends, then, were still alive, and though I
partly believed the truth of Silver's statement, that the cabin
party were incensed at me for my desertion, I was more relieved
than distressed by what I heard.

"I don't say nothing as to your being in our hands," continued
Silver, "though there you are, and you may lay to it. I'm all for
argyment; I never seen good come out o' threatening. If you like
the service, well, you'll jine; and if you don't, Jim, why, you're
free to answer no—free and welcome, shipmate; and if fairer can be
said by mortal seaman, shiver my sides!"

"Am I to answer, then?" I asked with a very tremulous voice.
Through all this sneering talk, I was made to feel the threat of
death that overhung me, and my cheeks burned and my heart beat
painfully in my breast.

"Lad," said Silver, "no one's a-pressing of you. Take your
bearings. None of us won't hurry you, mate; time goes so pleasant
in your company, you see."

"Well," says I, growing a bit bolder, "if I'm to choose, I
declare I have a right to know what's what, and why you're here,
and where my friends are."

"Wot's wot?" repeated one of the buccaneers in a deep growl.
"Ah, he'd be a lucky one as knowed that!"

"You'll perhaps batten down your hatches till you're spoke to,
my friend," cried Silver truculently to this speaker. And then, in
his first gracious tones, he replied to me, "Yesterday morning, Mr.
Hawkins," said he, "in the dog-watch, down came Doctor Livesey with
a flag of truce. Says he, 'Cap'n Silver, you're sold out. Ship's
gone.' Well, maybe we'd been taking a glass, and a song to help it
round. I won't say no. Leastways, none of us had looked out. We
looked out, and by thunder, the old ship was gone! I never seen a
pack o' fools look fishier; and you may lay to that, if I tells you
that looked the fishiest. 'Well,' says the doctor, 'let's bargain.'
We bargained, him and I, and here we are: stores, brandy, block
house, the firewood you was thoughtful enough to cut, and in a
manner of speaking, the whole blessed boat, from cross-trees to
kelson. As for them, they've tramped; I don't know where's they
are."

He drew again quietly at his pipe.
