"Then here goes!" said Morgan with an oath.

And he sprang up, drawing his knife as if he had been
twenty.

"Avast, there!" cried Silver. "Who are you, Tom Morgan? Maybe
you thought you was cap'n here, perhaps. By the powers, but I'll
teach you better! Cross me, and you'll go where many a good man's
gone before you, first and last, these thirty year back—some to the
yard-arm, shiver my timbers, and some by the board, and all to feed
the fishes. There's never a man looked me between the eyes and seen
a good day a'terwards, Tom Morgan, you may lay to that."

Morgan paused, but a hoarse murmur rose from the others.

"Tom's right," said one.

"I stood hazing long enough from one," added another. "I'll be
hanged if I'll be hazed by you, John Silver."

"Did any of you gentlemen want to have it out with me?" roared
Silver, bending far forward from his position on the keg, with his
pipe still glowing in his right hand. "Put a name on what you're
at; you ain't dumb, I reckon. Him that wants shall get it. Have I
lived this many years, and a son of a rum puncheon cock his hat
athwart my hawse at the latter end of it? You know the way; you're
all gentlemen o' fortune, by your account. Well, I'm ready. Take a
cutlass, him that dares, and I'll see the colour of his inside,
crutch and all, before that pipe's empty."

Not a man stirred; not a man answered.

"That's your sort, is it?" he added, returning his pipe to his
mouth. "Well, you're a gay lot to look at, anyway. Not much worth
to fight, you ain't. P'r'aps you can understand King George's
English. I'm cap'n here by 'lection. I'm cap'n here because I'm the
best man by a long sea-mile. You won't fight, as gentlemen o'
fortune should; then, by thunder, you'll obey, and you may lay to
it! I like that boy, now; I never seen a better boy than that. He's
more a man than any pair of rats of you in this here house, and
what I say is this: let me see him that'll lay a hand on him—that's
what I say, and you may lay to it."

There was a long pause after this. I stood straight up against
the wall, my heart still going like a sledge-hammer, but with a ray
of hope now shining in my bosom. Silver leant back against the
wall, his arms crossed, his pipe in the corner of his mouth, as
calm as though he had been in church; yet his eye kept wandering
furtively, and he kept the tail of it on his unruly followers.
They, on their part, drew gradually together towards the far end of
the block house, and the low hiss of their whispering sounded in my
ear continuously, like a stream. One after another, they would look
up, and the red light of the torch would fall for a second on their
nervous faces; but it was not towards me, it was towards Silver
that they turned their eyes.

"You seem to have a lot to say," remarked Silver, spitting far
into the air. "Pipe up and let me hear it, or lay to."
