
"Don't he?" replied the doctor. "Well, step up here, Dick, and
let me see your tongue. No, I should be surprised if he did! The
man's tongue is fit to frighten the French. Another fever."

"Ah, there," said Morgan, "that comed of sp'iling Bibles."

"That comes—as you call it—of being arrant asses," retorted the
doctor, "and not having sense enough to know honest air from
poison, and the dry land from a vile, pestiferous slough. I think
it most probable—though of course it's only an opinion—that you'll
all have the deuce to pay before you get that malaria out of your
systems. Camp in a bog, would you? Silver, I'm surprised at you.
You're less of a fool than many, take you all round; but you don't
appear to me to have the rudiments of a notion of the rules of
health.

"Well," he added after he had dosed them round and they had
taken his prescriptions, with really laughable humility, more like
charity schoolchildren than blood-guilty mutineers and
pirates—"well, that's done for today. And now I should wish to have
a talk with that boy, please."

And he nodded his head in my direction carelessly.

George Merry was at the door, spitting and spluttering over some
bad-tasted medicine; but at the first word of the doctor's proposal
he swung round with a deep flush and cried "No!" and swore.

Silver struck the barrel with his open hand.

"Si-lence!" he roared and looked about him positively like a
lion. "Doctor," he went on in his usual tones, "I was a-thinking of
that, knowing as how you had a fancy for the boy. We're all humbly
grateful for your kindness, and as you see, puts faith in you and
takes the drugs down like that much grog. And I take it I've found
a way as'll suit all. Hawkins, will you give me your word of honour
as a young gentleman—for a young gentleman you are, although poor
born—your word of honour not to slip your cable?"

I readily gave the pledge required.

"Then, doctor," said Silver, "you just step outside o' that
stockade, and once you're there I'll bring the boy down on the
inside, and I reckon you can yarn through the spars. Good day to
you, sir, and all our dooties to the squire and Cap'n
Smollett."

