
"That's a summons, mate. I'll tell you if they get that. But you
keep your weather-eye open, Jim, and I'll share with you equals,
upon my honour."

He wandered a little longer, his voice growing weaker; but soon
after I had given him his medicine, which he took like a child,
with the remark, "If ever a seaman wanted drugs, it's me," he fell
at last into a heavy, swoon-like sleep, in which I left him. What I
should have done had all gone well I do not know. Probably I should
have told the whole story to the doctor, for I was in mortal fear
lest the captain should repent of his confessions and make an end
of me. But as things fell out, my poor father died quite suddenly
that evening, which put all other matters on one side. Our natural
distress, the visits of the neighbours, the arranging of the
funeral, and all the work of the inn to be carried on in the
meanwhile kept me so busy that I had scarcely time to think of the
captain, far less to be afraid of him.

He got downstairs next morning, to be sure, and had his meals as
usual, though he ate little and had more, I am afraid, than his
usual supply of rum, for he helped himself out of the bar, scowling
and blowing through his nose, and no one dared to cross him. On the
night before the funeral he was as drunk as ever; and it was
shocking, in that house of mourning, to hear him singing away at
his ugly old sea-song; but weak as he was, we were all in the fear
of death for him, and the doctor was suddenly taken up with a case
many miles away and was never near the house after my father's
death. I have said the captain was weak, and indeed he seemed
rather to grow weaker than regain his strength. He clambered up and
down stairs, and went from the parlour to the bar and back again,
and sometimes put his nose out of doors to smell the sea, holding
on to the walls as he went for support and breathing hard and fast
like a man on a steep mountain. He never particularly addressed me,
and it is my belief he had as good as forgotten his confidences;
but his temper was more flighty, and allowing for his bodily
weakness, more violent than ever. He had an alarming way now when
he was drunk of drawing his cutlass and laying it bare before him
on the table. But with all that, he minded people less and seemed
shut up in his own thoughts and rather wandering. Once, for
instance, to our extreme wonder, he piped up to a different air, a
king of country love-song that he must have learned in his youth
before he had begun to follow the sea.

So things passed until, the day after the funeral, and about
three o'clock of a bitter, foggy, frosty afternoon, I was standing
at the door for a moment, full of sad thoughts about my father,
when I saw someone drawing slowly near along the road. He was
plainly blind, for he tapped before him with a stick and wore a
great green shade over his eyes and nose; and he was hunched, as if
with age or weakness, and wore a huge old tattered sea-cloak with a
hood that made him appear positively deformed. I never saw in my
life a more dreadful-looking figure. He stopped a little from the
inn, and raising his voice in an odd sing-song, addressed the air
in front of him, "Will any kind friend inform a poor blind man, who
has lost the precious sight of his eyes in the gracious defence of
his native country, England—and God bless King George!—where or in
what part of this country he may now be?"

"You are at the Admiral Benbow, Black Hill Cove, my good man,"
said I.

"I hear a voice," said he, "a young voice. Will you give me your
hand, my kind young friend, and lead me in?"

I held out my hand, and the horrible, soft-spoken, eyeless
creature gripped it in a moment like a vise. I was so much startled
that I struggled to withdraw, but the blind man pulled me close up
to him with a single action of his arm.

"Now, boy," he said, "take me in to the captain."

"Sir," said I, "upon my word I dare not."

"Oh," he sneered, "that's it! Take me in straight or I'll break
your arm."

