


Chapter

7
And Last


T
he next morning we
fell early to work, for the transportation of this great mass of
gold near a mile by land to the beach, and thence three miles by
boat to the Hispaniola, was a considerable task for so small a
number of workmen. The three fellows still abroad upon the island
did not greatly trouble us; a single sentry on the shoulder of the
hill was sufficient to ensure us against any sudden onslaught, and
we thought, besides, they had had more than enough of fighting.

Therefore the work was pushed on briskly. Gray and Ben Gunn came
and went with the boat, while the rest during their absences piled
treasure on the beach. Two of the bars, slung in a rope's end, made
a good load for a grown man—one that he was glad to walk slowly
with. For my part, as I was not much use at carrying, I was kept
busy all day in the cave packing the minted money into
bread-bags.

It was a strange collection, like Billy Bones's hoard for the
diversity of coinage, but so much larger and so much more varied
that I think I never had more pleasure than in sorting them.
English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Georges, and Louises,
doubloons and double guineas and moidores and sequins, the pictures
of all the kings of Europe for the last hundred years, strange
Oriental pieces stamped with what looked like wisps of string or
bits of spider's web, round pieces and square pieces, and pieces
bored through the middle, as if to wear them round your neck—nearly
every variety of money in the world must, I think, have found a
place in that collection; and for number, I am sure they were like
autumn leaves, so that my back ached with stooping and my fingers
with sorting them out.

Day after day this work went on; by every evening a fortune had
been stowed aboard, but there was another fortune waiting for the
morrow; and all this time we heard nothing of the three surviving
mutineers.

At last—I think it was on the third night—the doctor and I were
strolling on the shoulder of the hill where it overlooks the
lowlands of the isle, when, from out the thick darkness below, the
wind brought us a noise between shrieking and singing. It was only
a snatch that reached our ears, followed by the former silence.

"Heaven forgive them," said the doctor; "'tis the
mutineers!"

