


Chapter

4
The Sea-chest


I
lost no time, of
course, in telling my mother all that I knew, and perhaps should
have told her long before, and we saw ourselves at once in a
difficult and dangerous position. Some of the man's money—if he had
any—was certainly due to us, but it was not likely that our
captain's shipmates, above all the two specimens seen by me, Black
Dog and the blind beggar, would be inclined to give up their booty
in payment of the dead man's debts. The captain's order to mount at
once and ride for Doctor Livesey would have left my mother alone
and unprotected, which was not to be thought of. Indeed, it seemed
impossible for either of us to remain much longer in the house; the
fall of coals in the kitchen grate, the very ticking of the clock,
filled us with alarms. The neighbourhood, to our ears, seemed
haunted by approaching footsteps; and what between the dead body of
the captain on the parlour floor and the thought of that detestable
blind beggar hovering near at hand and ready to return, there were
moments when, as the saying goes, I jumped in my skin for terror.
Something must speedily be resolved upon, and it occurred to us at
last to go forth together and seek help in the neighbouring hamlet.
No sooner said than done. Bare-headed as we were, we ran out at
once in the gathering evening and the frosty fog.

The hamlet lay not many hundred yards away, though out of view,
on the other side of the next cove; and what greatly encouraged me,
it was in an opposite direction from that whence the blind man had
made his appearance and whither he had presumably returned. We were
not many minutes on the road, though we sometimes stopped to lay
hold of each other and hearken. But there was no unusual
sound—nothing but the low wash of the ripple and the croaking of
the inmates of the wood.

It was already candle-light when we reached the hamlet, and I
shall never forget how much I was cheered to see the yellow shine
in doors and windows; but that, as it proved, was the best of the
help we were likely to get in that quarter. For—you would have
thought men would have been ashamed of themselves—no soul would
consent to return with us to the Admiral Benbow. The more we told
of our troubles, the more—man, woman, and child—they clung to the
shelter of their houses. The name of Captain Flint, though it was
strange to me, was well enough known to some there and carried a
great weight of terror. Some of the men who had been to field-work
on the far side of the Admiral Benbow remembered, besides, to have
seen several strangers on the road, and taking them to be
smugglers, to have bolted away; and one at least had seen a little
lugger in what we called Kitt's Hole. For that matter, anyone who
was a comrade of the captain's was enough to frighten them to
death. And the short and the long of the matter was, that while we
could get several who were willing enough to ride to Dr. Livesey's,
which lay in another direction, not one would help us to defend the
inn.

They say cowardice is infectious; but then argument is, on the
other hand, a great emboldener; and so when each had said his say,
my mother made them a speech. She would not, she declared, lose
money that belonged to her fatherless boy; "If none of the rest of
you dare," she said, "Jim and I dare. Back we will go, the way we
came, and small thanks to you big, hulking, chicken-hearted men.
We'll have that chest open, if we die for it. And I'll thank you
for that bag, Mrs. Crossley, to bring back our lawful money
in."

Of course I said I would go with my mother, and of course they
all cried out at our foolhardiness, but even then not a man would
go along with us. All they would do was to give me a loaded pistol
lest we were attacked, and to promise to have horses ready saddled
in case we were pursued on our return, while one lad was to ride
forward to the doctor's in search of armed assistance.

My heart was beating finely when we two set forth in the cold
night upon this dangerous venture. A full moon was beginning to
rise and peered redly through the upper edges of the fog, and this
increased our haste, for it was plain, before we came forth again,
that all would be as bright as day, and our departure exposed to
the eyes of any watchers. We slipped along the hedges, noiseless
and swift, nor did we see or hear anything to increase our terrors,
till, to our relief, the door of the Admiral Benbow had closed
behind us.

