Just then the noise of horses topped the rise, and four or five
riders came in sight in the moonlight and swept at full gallop down
the slope.

At this Pew saw his error, turned with a scream, and ran
straight for the ditch, into which he rolled. But he was on his
feet again in a second and made another dash, now utterly
bewildered, right under the nearest of the coming horses.

The rider tried to save him, but in vain. Down went Pew with a
cry that rang high into the night; and the four hoofs trampled and
spurned him and passed by. He fell on his side, then gently
collapsed upon his face and moved no more.

I leaped to my feet and hailed the riders. They were pulling up,
at any rate, horrified at the accident; and I soon saw what they
were. One, tailing out behind the rest, was a lad that had gone
from the hamlet to Dr. Livesey's; the rest were revenue officers,
whom he had met by the way, and with whom he had had the
intelligence to return at once. Some news of the lugger in Kitt's
Hole had found its way to Supervisor Dance and set him forth that
night in our direction, and to that circumstance my mother and I
owed our preservation from death.

Pew was dead, stone dead. As for my mother, when we had carried
her up to the hamlet, a little cold water and salts and that soon
brought her back again, and she was none the worse for her terror,
though she still continued to deplore the balance of the money. In
the meantime the supervisor rode on, as fast as he could, to Kitt's
Hole; but his men had to dismount and grope down the dingle,
leading, and sometimes supporting, their horses, and in continual
fear of ambushes; so it was no great matter for surprise that when
they got down to the Hole the lugger was already under way, though
still close in. He hailed her. A voice replied, telling him to keep
out of the moonlight or he would get some lead in him, and at the
same time a bullet whistled close by his arm. Soon after, the
lugger doubled the point and disappeared. Mr. Dance stood there, as
he said, "like a fish out of water," and all he could do was to
dispatch a man to B——to warn the cutter. "And that," said he, "is
just about as good as nothing. They've got off clean, and there's
an end. "Only," he added, "I'm glad I trod on Master Pew's corns,"
for by this time he had heard my story.

I went back with him to the Admiral Benbow, and you cannot
imagine a house in such a state of smash; the very clock had been
thrown down by these fellows in their furious hunt after my mother
and myself; and though nothing had actually been taken away except
the captain's money-bag and a little silver from the till, I could
see at once that we were ruined. Mr. Dance could make nothing of
the scene.

"They got the money, you say? Well, then, Hawkins, what in
fortune were they after? More money, I suppose?"

"No, sir; not money, I think," replied I. "In fact, sir, I
believe I have the thing in my breast pocket; and to tell you the
truth, I should like to get it put in safety."

"To be sure, boy; quite right," said he. "I'll take it, if you
like."

"I thought perhaps Dr. Livesey—" I began.

"Perfectly right," he interrupted very cheerily, "perfectly
right—a gentleman and a magistrate. And, now I come to think of it,
I might as well ride round there myself and report to him or
squire. Master Pew's dead, when all's done; not that I regret it,
but he's dead, you see, and people will make it out against an
officer of his Majesty's revenue, if make it out they can. Now,
I'll tell you, Hawkins, if you like, I'll take you along."
