
The paper had been sealed in several places with a thimble by
way of seal; the very thimble, perhaps, that I had found in the
captain's pocket. The doctor opened the seals with great care, and
there fell out the map of an island, with latitude and longitude,
soundings, names of hills and bays and inlets, and every particular
that would be needed to bring a ship to a safe anchorage upon its
shores. It was about nine miles long and five across, shaped, you
might say, like a fat dragon standing up, and had two fine
land-locked harbours, and a hill in the centre part marked "The
Spy-glass." There were several additions of a later date, but above
all, three crosses of red ink—two on the north part of the island,
one in the southwest—and beside this last, in the same red ink, and
in a small, neat hand, very different from the captain's tottery
characters, these words: "Bulk of treasure here."

Over on the back the same hand had written this further
information:


Tall tree, Spy-glass shoulder, bearing a point to&#160;the N. of
N.N.E.&#160;Skeleton Island E.S.E. and by E.

Ten feet.

The bar silver is in the north cache; you can find&#160;it by
the trend of the east hummock, ten fathoms

south of the black crag with the face on it.&#160;The arms are
easy found, in the sand-hill, N.&#160;point of north inlet cape,
bearing E. and a&#160;quarter N.

J.F.


That was all; but brief as it was, and to me incomprehensible,
it filled the squire and Dr. Livesey with delight.

"Livesey," said the squire, "you will give up this wretched
practice at once. Tomorrow I start for Bristol. In three weeks'
time—three weeks!—two weeks—ten days—we'll have the best ship, sir,
and the choicest crew in England. Hawkins shall come as cabin-boy.
You'll make a famous cabin-boy, Hawkins. You, Livesey, are ship's
doctor; I am admiral. We'll take Redruth, Joyce, and Hunter. We'll
have favourable winds, a quick passage, and not the least
difficulty in finding the spot, and money to eat, to roll in, to
play duck and drake with ever after."

