


Chapter

2
At
the Sign of the Spy-glass


W
hen I had done
breakfasting the squire gave me a note addressed to John Silver, at
the sign of the Spy-glass, and told me I should easily find the
place by following the line of the docks and keeping a bright
lookout for a little tavern with a large brass telescope for sign.
I set off, overjoyed at this opportunity to see some more of the
ships and seamen, and picked my way among a great crowd of people
and carts and bales, for the dock was now at its busiest, until I
found the tavern in question.

It was a bright enough little place of entertainment. The sign
was newly painted; the windows had neat red curtains; the floor was
cleanly sanded. There was a street on each side and an open door on
both, which made the large, low room pretty clear to see in, in
spite of clouds of tobacco smoke.

The customers were mostly seafaring men, and they talked so
loudly that I hung at the door, almost afraid to enter.

As I was waiting, a man came out of a side room, and at a glance
I was sure he must be Long John. His left leg was cut off close by
the hip, and under the left shoulder he carried a crutch, which he
managed with wonderful dexterity, hopping about upon it like a
bird. He was very tall and strong, with a face as big as a
ham—plain and pale, but intelligent and smiling. Indeed, he seemed
in the most cheerful spirits, whistling as he moved about among the
tables, with a merry word or a slap on the shoulder for the more
favoured of his guests.

Now, to tell you the truth, from the very first mention of Long
John in Squire Trelawney's letter I had taken a fear in my mind
that he might prove to be the very one-legged sailor whom I had
watched for so long at the old Benbow. But one look at the man
before me was enough. I had seen the captain, and Black Dog, and
the blind man, Pew, and I thought I knew what a buccaneer was
like—a very different creature, according to me, from this clean
and pleasant-tempered landlord.

I plucked up courage at once, crossed the threshold, and walked
right up to the man where he stood, propped on his crutch, talking
to a customer.

