
"He's no common man, Barbecue," said the coxswain to me. "He had
good schooling in his young days and can speak like a book when so
minded; and brave—a lion's nothing alongside of Long John! I seen
him grapple four and knock their heads together—him unarmed."

All the crew respected and even obeyed him. He had a way of
talking to each and doing everybody some particular service. To me
he was unweariedly kind, and always glad to see me in the galley,
which he kept as clean as a new pin, the dishes hanging up
burnished and his parrot in a cage in one corner.

"Come away, Hawkins," he would say; "come and have a yarn with
John. Nobody more welcome than yourself, my son. Sit you down and
hear the news. Here's Cap'n Flint—I calls my parrot Cap'n Flint,
after the famous buccaneer—here's Cap'n Flint predicting success to
our v'yage. Wasn't you, cap'n?"

And the parrot would say, with great rapidity, "Pieces of eight!
Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight!" till you wondered that it was
not out of breath, or till John threw his handkerchief over the
cage.

"Now, that bird," he would say, "is, maybe, two hundred years
old, Hawkins—they live forever mostly; and if anybody's seen more
wickedness, it must be the devil himself. She's sailed with
England, the great Cap'n England, the pirate. She's been at
Madagascar, and at Malabar, and Surinam, and Providence, and
Portobello. She was at the fishing up of the wrecked plate ships.
It's there she learned 'Pieces of eight,' and little wonder; three
hundred and fifty thousand of 'em, Hawkins! She was at the boarding
of the viceroy of the Indies out of Goa, she was; and to look at
her you would think she was a babby. But you smelt powder—didn't
you, cap'n?"

"Stand by to go about," the parrot would scream.

"Ah, she's a handsome craft, she is," the cook would say, and
give her sugar from his pocket, and then the bird would peck at the
bars and swear straight on, passing belief for wickedness. "There,"
John would add, "you can't touch pitch and not be mucked, lad.
Here's this poor old innocent bird o' mine swearing blue fire, and
none the wiser, you may lay to that. She would swear the same, in a
manner of speaking, before chaplain." And John would touch his
forelock with a solemn way he had that made me think he was the
best of men.

In the meantime, the squire and Captain Smollett were still on
pretty distant terms with one another. The squire made no bones
about the matter; he despised the captain. The captain, on his
part, never spoke but when he was spoken to, and then sharp and
short and dry, and not a word wasted. He owned, when driven into a
corner, that he seemed to have been wrong about the crew, that some
of them were as brisk as he wanted to see and all had behaved
fairly well. As for the ship, he had taken a downright fancy to
her. "She'll lie a point nearer the wind than a man has a right to
expect of his own married wife, sir. But," he would add, "all I say
is, we're not home again, and I don't like the cruise."

The squire, at this, would turn away and march up and down the
deck, chin in air.

"A trifle more of that man," he would say, "and I shall
explode."

