"Yes, sir; Skeleton Island they calls it. It were a main place
for pirates once, and a hand we had on board knowed all their names
for it. That hill to the nor'ard they calls the Fore-mast Hill;
there are three hills in a row running south'ard—fore, main, and
mizzen, sir. But the main—that's the big un, with the cloud on
it—they usually calls the Spy-glass, by reason of a lookout they
kept when they was in the anchorage cleaning, for it's there they
cleaned their ships, sir, asking your pardon."

"I have a chart here," says Captain Smollett. "See if that's the
place."

Long John's eyes burned in his head as he took the chart, but by
the fresh look of the paper I knew he was doomed to disappointment.
This was not the map we found in Billy Bones's chest, but an
accurate copy, complete in all things—names and heights and
soundings—with the single exception of the red crosses and the
written notes. Sharp as must have been his annoyance, Silver had
the strength of mind to hide it.

"Yes, sir," said he, "this is the spot, to be sure, and very
prettily drawed out. Who might have done that, I wonder? The
pirates were too ignorant, I reckon. Aye, here it is: 'Capt. Kidd's
Anchorage'—just the name my shipmate called it. There's a strong
current runs along the south, and then away nor'ard up the west
coast. Right you was, sir," says he, "to haul your wind and keep
the weather of the island. Leastways, if such was your intention as
to enter and careen, and there ain't no better place for that in
these waters."

"Thank you, my man," says Captain Smollett. "I'll ask you later
on to give us a help. You may go."

I was surprised at the coolness with which John avowed his
knowledge of the island, and I own I was half-frightened when I saw
him drawing nearer to myself. He did not know, to be sure, that I
had overheard his council from the apple barrel, and yet I had by
this time taken such a horror of his cruelty, duplicity, and power
that I could scarce conceal a shudder when he laid his hand upon my
arm.

"Ah," says he, "this here is a sweet spot, this island—a sweet
spot for a lad to get ashore on. You'll bathe, and you'll climb
trees, and you'll hunt goats, you will; and you'll get aloft on
them hills like a goat yourself. Why, it makes me young again. I
was going to forget my timber leg, I was. It's a pleasant thing to
be young and have ten toes, and you may lay to that. When you want
to go a bit of exploring, you just ask old John, and he'll put up a
snack for you to take along."

And clapping me in the friendliest way upon the shoulder, he
hobbled off forward and went below.

Captain Smollett, the squire, and Dr. Livesey were talking
together on the quarter-deck, and anxious as I was to tell them my
story, I durst not interrupt them openly. While I was still casting
about in my thoughts to find some probable excuse, Dr. Livesey
called me to his side. He had left his pipe below, and being a
slave to tobacco, had meant that I should fetch it; but as soon as
I was near enough to speak and not to be overheard, I broke
immediately, "Doctor, let me speak. Get the captain and squire down
to the cabin, and then make some pretence to send for me. I have
terrible news."

The doctor changed countenance a little, but next moment he was
master of himself.

"Thank you, Jim," said he quite loudly, "that was all I wanted
to know," as if he had asked me a question.
