"Who are you?" I asked.

"Ben Gunn," he answered, and his voice sounded hoarse and
awkward, like a rusty lock. "I'm poor Ben Gunn, I am; and I haven't
spoke with a Christian these three years."

I could now see that he was a white man like myself and that his
features were even pleasing. His skin, wherever it was exposed, was
burnt by the sun; even his lips were black, and his fair eyes
looked quite startling in so dark a face. Of all the beggar-men
that I had seen or fancied, he was the chief for raggedness. He was
clothed with tatters of old ship's canvas and old sea-cloth, and
this extraordinary patchwork was all held together by a system of
the most various and incongruous fastenings, brass buttons, bits of
stick, and loops of tarry gaskin. About his waist he wore an old
brass-buckled leather belt, which was the one thing solid in his
whole accoutrement.

"Three years!" I cried. "Were you shipwrecked?"

"Nay, mate," said he; "marooned."

I had heard the word, and I knew it stood for a horrible kind of
punishment common enough among the buccaneers, in which the
offender is put ashore with a little powder and shot and left
behind on some desolate and distant island.

"Marooned three years agone," he continued, "and lived on goats
since then, and berries, and oysters. Wherever a man is, says I, a
man can do for himself. But, mate, my heart is sore for Christian
diet. You mightn't happen to have a piece of cheese about you, now?
No? Well, many's the long night I've dreamed of cheese—toasted,
mostly—and woke up again, and here I were." "If ever I can get
aboard again," said I, "you shall have cheese by the stone."

All this time he had been feeling the stuff of my jacket,
smoothing my hands, looking at my boots, and generally, in the
intervals of his speech, showing a childish pleasure in the
presence of a fellow creature. But at my last words he perked up
into a kind of startled slyness.

"If ever you can get aboard again, says you?" he repeated. "Why,
now, who's to hinder you?"

"Not you, I know," was my reply.

"And right you was," he cried. "Now you—what do you call
yourself, mate?"
