


Chapter

2

&#160;


&#160;Copernicus having established a theory of the celestial
movements which deliberately set aside the stability of the earth,
it seemed natural that he should inquire whether the doctrine of a
moving earth might not remove the difficulties presented in other
celestial phenomena. It had been universally admitted that the
earth lay unsupported in space. Copernicus had further shown that
it possessed a movement of rotation. Its want of stability being
thus recognised, it seemed reasonable to suppose that the earth
might also have some other kinds of movements as well. In this,
Copernicus essayed to solve a problem far more difficult than that
which had hitherto occupied his attention. It was a comparatively
easy task to show how the diurnal rising and setting could be
accounted for by the rotation, of the earth. It was a much more
difficult undertaking to demonstrate that the planetary movements,
which Ptolemy had represented with so much success, could be
completely explained by the supposition that each of those planets
revolved uniformly round the sun, and that the earth was also a
planet, accomplishing a complete circuit of the sun once in the
course of a year.

It would be impossible in a sketch like the present to enter
into any detail as to the geometrical propositions on which this
beautiful investigation of Copernicus depended. We can only mention
a few of the leading principles. It may be laid down in general
that, if an observer is in movement, he will, if unconscious of the
fact, attribute to the fixed objects around him a movement equal
and opposite to that which he actually possesses. A passenger on a
canal-boat sees the objects on the banks apparently moving backward
with a speed equal to that by which he is himself advancing
forwards. By an application of this principle, we can account for
all the phenomena of the movements of the planets, which Ptolemy
had so ingeniously represented by his circles. Let us take, for
instance, the most characteristic feature in. the irregularities of
the outer planets. We have already remarked that Mars, though
generally advancing from west to east among the stars, occasionally
pauses, retraces his steps for a while, again pauses, and then
resumes his ordinary onward progress. Copernicus showed clearly how
this effect was produced by the real motion of the earth, combined
with the real motion of Mars. In the adjoining figure we represent
a portion of the circular tracks in which the earth and Mars move
in accordance with the Copernican doctrine. I show particularly the
case where the earth comes directly between the planet and the sun,
because it is on such occasions that the retrograde movement (for
so this backward movement of Mars is termed) is at its highest.
Mars is then advancing in the direction shown by the arrow-head,
and the earth is also advancing in the same direction. We, on the
earth, however, being unconscious of our own motion, attribute, by
the principle I have already explained, an equal and opposite
motion to Mars. The visible effect upon the planet is, that Mars
has two movements, a real onward movement in one direction, and an
apparent movement in the opposite direction. If it so happened that
the earth was moving with the same speed as Mars, then the apparent
movement would exactly neutralise the real movement, and Mars would
seem to be at rest relatively to the surrounding stars. Under the
actual circumstances represented, however, the earth is moving
faster than Mars, and the consequence is, that the apparent
movement of the planet backwards exceeds the real movement
forwards, the net result being an apparent retrograde movement.

With consummate skill, Copernicus showed how the applications of
the same principles could account for the characteristic movements
of the planets. His reasoning in due time bore down all opposition.
The supreme importance of the earth in the system vanished. It had
now merely to take rank as one of the planets. The same great
astronomer now, for the first time, rendered something like a
rational account of the changes of the seasons. Nor did certain of
the more obscure astronomical phenomena escape his attention.

He delayed publishing his wonderful discoveries to the world
until he was quite an old man. He had a well-founded apprehension
of the storm of opposition which they would arouse.
[3]
However, he yielded at last to the
entreaties of his friends, and his book was sent to the press. But
ere it made its appearance to the world, Copernicus was seized by
mortal illness. A copy of the book was brought to him on May 23,
1543. We are told that he was able to see it and to touch it, but
no more, and he died a few hours afterwards. He was buried in that
Cathedral of Frauenburg, with which his life had been so closely
associated.



