
"Poor little souls, they will have a hard time, I'm afraid, but
they won't suffer, and it will do them good," she said, producing
the more palatable viands with which she had provided herself, and
disposing of the bad breakfast, so that their feelings might not be
hurt, a motherly little deception for which they were grateful.

Many were the complaints below, and great the chagrin of the
head cook at her failures. "Never mind, I'll get the dinner and be
servant, you be mistress, keep your hands nice, see company, and
give orders," said Jo, who knew still less than Meg about culinary
affairs.

This obliging offer was gladly accepted, and Margaret retired to
the parlor, which she hastily put in order by whisking the litter
under the sofa and shutting the blinds to save the trouble of
dusting. Jo, with perfect faith in her own powers and a friendly
desire to make up the quarrel, immediately put a note in the
office, inviting Laurie to dinner.

"You'd better see what you have got before you think of having
company," said Meg, when informed of the hospitable but rash
act.

"Oh, there's corned beef and plenty of poatoes, and I shall get
some asparagus and a lobster, 'for a relish', as Hannah says. We'll
have lettuce and make a salad. I don't know how, but the book
tells. I'll have blanc mange and strawberries for dessert, and
coffee too, if you want to be elegant."

"Don't try too many messes, Jo, for you can't make anything but
gingerbread and molasses candy fit to eat. I wash my hands of the
dinner party, and since you have asked Laurie on your own
responsibility, you may just take care of him."

"I don't want you to do anything but be civil to him and help to
the pudding. You'll give me your advice if I get in a muddle, won't
you?" asked Jo, rather hurt.

"Yes, but I don't know much, except about bread and a few
trifles. You had better ask Mother's leave before you order
anything," returned Meg prudently.

"Of course I shall. I'm not a fool." And Jo went off in a huff
at the doubts expressed of her powers.

"Get what you like, and don't disturb me. I'm going out to
dinner and can't worry about things at home," said Mrs. March, when
Jo spoke to her. "I never enjoyed housekeeping, and I'm going to
take a vacation today, and read, write, go visiting, and amuse
myself."

