"Oh, Jo, you are not going to wear that awful hat? It's too
absurd! You shall not make a guy of yourself," remonstrated Meg, as
Jo tied down with a red ribbon the broad-brimmed, old-fashioned
leghorn Laurie had sent for a joke.

"I just will, though, for it's capital, so shady, light, and
big. It will make fun, and I don't mind being a guy if I'm
comfortable." With that Jo marched straight away and the rest
followed, a bright little band of sisters, all looking their best
in summer suits, with happy faces under the jaunty hatbrims.

Laurie ran to meet and present them to his friends in the most
cordial manner. The lawn was the reception room, and for several
minutes a lively scene was enacted there. Meg was grateful to see
that Miss Kate, though twenty, was dressed with a simplicity which
American girls would do well to imitate, and who was much flattered
by Mr. Ned's assurances that he came especially to see her. Jo
understood why Laurie 'primmed up his mouth' when speaking of Kate,
for that young lady had a standoff-don't-touch-me air, which
contrasted strongly with the free and easy demeanor of the other
girls. Beth took an observation of the new boys and decided that
the lame one was not 'dreadful', but gentle and feeble, and she
would be kind to him on that account. Amy found Grace a
well-mannered, merry, little person, and after staring dumbly at
one another for a few minutes, they suddenly became very good
friends.

Tents, lunch, and croquet utensils having been sent on
beforehand, the party was soon embarked, and the two boats pushed
off together, leaving Mr. Laurence waving his hat on the shore.
Laurie and Jo rowed one boat, Mr. Brooke and Ned the other, while
Fred Vaughn, the riotous twin, did his best to upset both by
paddling about in a wherry like a disturbed water bug. Jo's funny
hat deserved a vote of thanks, for it was of general utility. It
broke the ice in the beginning by producing a laugh, it created
quite a refreshing breeze, flapping to and fro as she rowed, and
would make an excellent umbrella for the whole party, if a shower
came up, she said. Miss Kate decided that she was 'odd', but rather
clever, and smiled upon her from afar.

Meg, in the other boat, was delightfully situated, face to face
with the rowers, who both admired the prospect and feathered their
oars with uncommon 'skill and dexterity'. Mr. Brooke was a grave,
silent young man, with handsome brown eyes and a pleasant voice.
Meg liked his quiet manners and considered him a walking
encyclopedia of useful knowledge. He never talked to her much, but
he looked at her a good deal, and she felt sure that he did not
regard her with aversion. Ned, being in college, of course put on
all the airs which freshmen think it their bounden duty to assume.
He was not very wise, but very good-natured, and altogether an
excellent person to carry on a picnic. Sallie Gardiner was absorbed
in keeping her white pique dress clean and chattering with the
ubiquitous Fred, who kept Beth in constant terror by his
pranks.

It was not far to Longmeadow, but the tent was pitched and the
wickets down by the time they arrived. A pleasant green field, with
three wide-spreading oaks in the middle and a smooth strip of turf
for croquet.

"Welcome to Camp Laurence!" said the young host, as they landed
with exclamations of delight.

"Brooke is commander in chief, I am commissary general, the
other fellows are staff officers, and you, ladies, are company. The
tent is for your especial benefit and that oak is your drawing
room, this is the messroom and the third is the camp kitchen. Now,
let's have a game before it gets hot, and then we'll see about
dinner."

Frank, Beth, Amy, and Grace sat down to watch the game played by
the other eight. Mr. Brooke chose Meg, Kate, and Fred. Laurie took
Sallie, Jo, and Ned. The English played well, but the Americans
played better, and contested every inch of the ground as strongly
as if the spirit of '76 inspired them. Jo and Fred had several
skirmishes and once narrowly escaped high words. Jo was through the
last wicket and had missed the stroke, which failure ruffled her a
good deal. Fred was close behind her and his turn came before hers.
He gave a stroke, his ball hit the wicket, and stopped an inch on
the wrong side. No one was very near, and running up to examine, he
gave it a sly nudge with his toe, which put it just an inch on the
right side.

"I'm through! Now, Miss Jo, I'll settle you, and get in first,"
cried the young gentleman, swinging his mallet for another
blow.

"You pushed it. I saw you. It's my turn now," said Jo
sharply.
