
"Upon my word, I didn't move it. It rolled a bit, perhaps, but
that is allowed. So, stand off please, and let me have a go at the
stake."

"We don't cheat in America, but you can, if you choose," said Jo
angrily.

"Yankees are a deal the most tricky, everybody knows. There you
go!" returned Fred, croqueting her ball far away.

Jo opened her lips to say something rude, but checked herself in
time, colored up to her forehead and stood a minute, hammering down
a wicket with all her might, while Fred hit the stake and declared
himself out with much exultation. She went off to get her ball, and
was a long time finding it among the bushes, but she came back,
looking cool and quiet, and waited her turn patiently. It took
several strokes to regain the place she had lost, and when she got
there, the other side had nearly won, for Kate's ball was the last
but one and lay near the stake.

"By George, it's all up with us! Goodbye, Kate. Miss Jo owes me
one, so you are finished," cried Fred excitedly, as they all drew
near to see the finish.

"Yankees have a trick of being generous to their enemies," said
Jo, with a look that made the lad redden, "especially when they
beat them," she added, as, leaving Kate's ball untouched, she won
the game by a clever stroke.

Laurie threw up his hat, then remembered that it wouldn't do to
exult over the defeat of his guests, and stopped in the middle of
the cheer to whisper to his friend, "Good for you, Jo! He did
cheat, I saw him. We can't tell him so, but he won't do it again,
take my word for it."

Meg drew her aside, under pretense of pinning up a loose braid,
and said approvingly, "It was dreadfully provoking, but you kept
your temper, and I'm so glad, Jo."

"Don't praise me, Meg, for I could box his ears this minute. I
should certainly have boiled over if I hadn't stayed among the
nettles till I got my rage under control enough to hold my tongue.
It's simmering now, so I hope he'll keep out of my way," returned
Jo, biting her lips as she glowered at Fred from under her big
hat.

"Time for lunch," said Mr. Brooke, looking at his watch.
"Commissary general, will you make the fire and get water, while
Miss March, Miss Sallie, and I spread the table? Who can make good
coffee?"

