


Chapter

13
Castles in the Air


Laurie lay luxuriously swinging to and fro in his hammock one
warm September afternoon, wondering what his neighbors were about,
but too lazy to go and find out. He was in one of his moods, for
the day had been both unprofitable and unsatisfactory, and he was
wishing he could live it over again. The hot weather made him
indolent, and he had shirked his studies, tried Mr. Brooke's
patience to the utmost, displeased his grandfather by practicing
half the afternoon, frightened the maidservants half out of their
wits by mischievously hinting that one of his dogs was going mad,
and, after high words with the stableman about some fancied neglect
of his horse, he had flung himself into his hammock to fume over
the stupidity of the world in general, till the peace of the lovely
day quieted him in spite of himself. Staring up into the green
gloom of the horse-chestnut trees above him, he dreamed dreams of
all sorts, and was just imagining himself tossing on the ocean in a
voyage round the world, when the sound of voices brought him ashore
in a flash. Peeping through the meshes of the hammock, he saw the
Marches coming out, as if bound on some expedition.

"What in the world are those girls about now?" thought Laurie,
opening his sleepy eyes to take a good look, for there was
something rather peculiar in the appearance of his neighbors. Each
wore a large, flapping hat, a brown linen pouch slung over one
shoulder, and carried a long staff. Meg had a cushion, Jo a book,
Beth a basket, and Amy a portfolio. All walked quietly through the
garden, out at the little back gate, and began to climb the hill
that lay between the house and river.

"Well, that's cool," said Laurie to himself, "to have a picnic
and never ask me! They can't be going in the boat, for they haven't
got the key. Perhaps they forgot it. I'll take it to them, and see
what's going on."

Though possessed of half a dozen hats, it took him some time to
find one, then there was a hunt for the key, which was at last
discovered in his pocket, so that the girls were quite out of sight
when he leaped the fence and ran after them. Taking the shortest
way to the boathouse, he waited for them to appear, but no one
came, and he went up the hill to take an observation. A grove of
pines covered one part of it, and from the heart of this green spot
came a clearer sound than the soft sigh of the pines or the drowsy
chirp of the crickets.

"Here's a landscape!" thought Laurie, peeping through the
bushes, and looking wide-awake and good-natured already.

It was a rather pretty little picture, for the sisters sat
together in the shady nook, with sun and shadow flickering over
them, the aromatic wind lifting their hair and cooling their hot
cheeks, and all the little wood people going on with their affairs
as if these were no strangers but old friends. Meg sat upon her
cushion, sewing daintily with her white hands, and looking as fresh
and sweet as a rose in her pink dress among the green. Beth was
sorting the cones that lay thick under the hemlock near by, for she
made pretty things with them. Amy was sketching a group of ferns,
and Jo was knitting as she read aloud. A shadow passed over the
boy's face as he watched them, feeling that he ought to go away
because uninvited; yet lingering because home seemed very lonely
and this quiet party in the woods most attractive to his restless
spirit. He stood so still that a squirrel, busy with its
harvesting, ran down a pine close beside him, saw him suddenly and
skipped back, scolding so shrilly that Beth looked up, espied the
wistful face behind the birches, and beckoned with a reassuring
smile.

"May I come in, please? Or shall I be a bother?" he asked,
advancing slowly.
