
"I hope I shall have done something to be proud of by that time,
but I'm such a lazy dog, I'm afraid I shall dawdle, Jo."

"You need a motive, Mother says, and when you get it, she is
sure you'll work splendidly."

"Is she? By Jupiter, I will, if I only get the chance!" cried
Laurie, sitting up with sudden energy. "I ought to be satisfied to
please Grandfather, and I do try, but it's working against the
grain, you see, and comes hard. He wants me to be an India
merchant, as he was, and I'd rather be shot. I hate tea and silk
and spices, and every sort of rubbish his old ships bring, and I
don't care how soon they go to the bottom when I own them. Going to
college ought to satisfy him, for if I give him four years he ought
to let me off from the business. But he's set, and I've got to do
just as he did, unless I break away and please myself, as my father
did. If there was anyone left to stay with the old gentleman, I'd
do it tomorrow."

Laurie spoke excitedly, and looked ready to carry his threat
into execution on the slightest provocation, for he was growing up
very fast and, in spite of his indolent ways, had a young man's
hatred of subjection, a young man's restless longing to try the
world for himself.

"I advise you to sail away in one of your ships, and never come
home again till you have tried your own way," said Jo, whose
imagination was fired by the thought of such a daring exploit, and
whose sympathy was excited by what she called 'Teddy's Wrongs'.

"That's not right, Jo. You mustn't talk in that way, and Laurie
mustn't take your bad advice. You should do just what your
grandfather wishes, my dear boy," said Meg in her most maternal
tone. "Do your best at college, and when he sees that you try to
please him, I'm sure he won't be hard on you or unjust to you. As
you say, there is no one else to stay with and love him, and you'd
never forgive yourself if you left him without his permission.
Don't be dismal or fret, but do your duty and you'll get your
reward, as good Mr. Brooke has, by being respected and loved."

"What do you know about him?" asked Laurie, grateful for the
good advice, but objecting to the lecture, and glad to turn the
conversation from himself after his unusual outbreak.

"Only what your grandpa told us about him, how he took good care
of his own mother till she died, and wouldn't go abroad as tutor to
some nice person because he wouldn't leave her. And how he provides
now for an old woman who nursed his mother, and never tells anyone,
but is just as generous and patient and good as he can be."

"So he is, dear old fellow!" said Laurie heartily, as Meg
paused, looking flushed and earnest with her story. "It's like
Grandpa to find out all about him without letting him know, and to
tell all his goodness to others, so that they might like him.
Brooke couldn't understand why your mother was so kind to him,
asking him over with me and treating him in her beautiful friendly
way. He thought she was just perfect, and talked about it for days
and days, and went on about you all in flaming style. If ever I do
get my wish, you see what I'll do for Brooke."

"Begin to do something now by not plaguing his life out," said
Meg sharply.

