


Chapter

14
Secrets


Jo was very busy in the garret, for the October days began to
grow chilly, and the afternoons were short. For two or three hours
the sun lay warmly in the high window, showing Jo seated on the old
sofa, writing busily, with her papers spread out upon a trunk
before her, while Scrabble, the pet rat, promenaded the beams
overhead, accompanied by his oldest son, a fine young fellow, who
was evidently very proud of his whiskers. Quite absorbed in her
work, Jo scribbled away till the last page was filled, when she
signed her name with a flourish and threw down her pen,
exclaiming…

"There, I've done my best! If this won't suit I shall have to
wait till I can do better."

Lying back on the sofa, she read the manuscript carefully
through, making dashes here and there, and putting in many
exclamation points, which looked like little balloons. Then she
tied it up with a smart red ribbon, and sat a minute looking at it
with a sober, wistful expression, which plainly showed how earnest
her work had been. Jo's desk up here was an old tin kitchen which
hung against the wall. In it she kept her papers, and a few books,
safely shut away from Scrabble, who, being likewise of a literary
turn, was fond of making a circulating library of such books as
were left in his way by eating the leaves. From this tin receptacle
Jo produced another manuscript, and putting both in her pocket,
crept quietly downstairs, leaving her friends to nibble on her pens
and taste her ink.

She put on her hat and jacket as noiselessly as possible, and
going to the back entry window, got out upon the roof of a low
porch, swung herself down to the grassy bank, and took a roundabout
way to the road. Once there, she composed herself, hailed a passing
omnibus, and rolled away to town, looking very merry and
mysterious.

If anyone had been watching her, he would have thought her
movements decidedly peculiar, for on alighting, she went off at a
great pace till she reached a certain number in a certain busy
street. Having found the place with some difficulty, she went into
the doorway, looked up the dirty stairs, and after standing stock
still a minute, suddenly dived into the street and walked away as
rapidly as she came. This maneuver she repeated several times, to
the great amusement of a black-eyed young gentleman lounging in the
window of a building opposite. On returning for the third time, Jo
gave herself a shake, pulled her hat over her eyes, and walked up
the stairs, looking as if she were going to have all her teeth
out.

There was a dentist's sign, among others, which adorned the
entrance, and after staring a moment at the pair of artificial jaws
which slowly opened and shut to draw attention to a fine set of
teeth, the young gentleman put on his coat, took his hat, and went
down to post himself in the opposite doorway, saying with a smile
and a shiver, "It's like her to come alone, but if she has a bad
time she'll need someone to help her home."

In ten minutes Jo came running downstairs with a very red face
and the general appearance of a person who had just passed through
a trying ordeal of some sort. When she saw the young gentleman she
looked anything but pleased, and passed him with a nod. But he
followed, asking with an air of sympathy, "Did you have a bad
time?"
