Dear me, how delighted they all were, to be sure! How Meg
wouldn't believe it till she saw the words. "Miss Josephine March,"
actually printed in the paper. How graciously Amy critisized the
artistic parts of the story, and offered hints for a sequel, which
unfortunately couldn't be carried out, as the hero and heroine were
dead. How Beth got excited, and skipped and sang with joy. How
Hannah came in to exclaim, "Sakes alive, well I never!" in great
astonishment at 'that Jo's doin's'. How proud Mrs. March was when
she knew it. How Jo laughed, with tears in her eyes, as she
declared she might as well be a peacock and done with it, and how
the 'Spread Eagle' might be said to flap his wings triumphantly
over the House of March, as the paper passed from hand to hand.

"Tell us about it." "When did it come?" "How much did you get
for it?" "What will Father say?" "Won't Laurie laugh?" cried the
family, all in one breath as they clustered about Jo, for these
foolish, affectionate people made a jubilee of every little
household joy.

"Stop jabbering, girls, and I'll tell you everything," said Jo,
wondering if Miss Burney felt any grander over her Evelina than she
did over her 'Rival Painters'. Having told how she disposed of her
tales, Jo added, "And when I went to get my answer, the man said he
liked them both, but didn't pay beginners, only let them print in
his paper, and noticed the stories. It was good practice, he said,
and when the beginners improved, anyone would pay. So I let him
have the two stories, and today this was sent to me, and Laurie
caught me with it and insisted on seeing it, so I let him. And he
said it was good, and I shall write more, and he's going to get the
next paid for, and I am so happy, for in time I may be able to
support myself and help the girls."

Jo's breath gave out here, and wrapping her head in the paper,
she bedewed her little story with a few natural tears, for to be
independent and earn the praise of those she loved were the dearest
wishes of her heart, and this seemed to be the first step toward
that happy end.




