"Where's Laurie?" she asked presently, when she had collected
her thoughts and decided on the first duties to be done.

"Here, ma'am. Oh, let me do something!" cried the boy, hurrying
from the next room whither he had withdrawn, feeling that their
first sorrow was too sacred for even his friendly eyes to see.

"Send a telegram saying I will come at once. The next train goes
early in the morning. I'll take that."

"What else? The horses are ready. I can go anywhere, do
anything," he said, looking ready to fly to the ends of the
earth.

"Leave a note at Aunt March's. Jo, give me that pen and
paper."

Tearing off the blank side of one of her newly copied pages, Jo
drew the table before her mother, well knowing that money for the
long, sad journey must be borrowed, and feeling as if she could do
anything to add a little to the sum for her father.

"Now go, dear, but don't kill yourself driving at a desperate
pace. There is no need of that."

Mrs. March's warning was evidently thrown away, for five minutes
later Laurie tore by the window on his own fleet horse, riding as
if for his life.

"Jo, run to the rooms, and tell Mrs. King that I can't come. On
the way get these things. I'll put them down, they'll be needed and
I must go prepared for nursing. Hospital stores are not always
good. Beth, go and ask Mr. Laurence for a couple of bottles of old
wine. I'm not too proud to beg for Father. He shall have the best
of everything. Amy, tell Hannah to get down the black trunk, and
Meg, come and help me find my things, for I'm half bewildered."

Writing, thinking, and directing all at once might well bewilder
the poor lady, and Meg begged her to sit quietly in her room for a
little while, and let them work. Everyone scattered like leaves
before a gust of wind, and the quiet, happy household was broken up
as suddenly as if the paper had been an evil spell.

Mr. Laurence came hurrying back with Beth, bringing every
comfort the kind old gentleman could think of for the invalid, and
friendliest promises of protection for the girls during the
mother's absence, which comforted her very much. There was nothing
he didn't offer, from his own dressing gown to himself as escort.
But the last was impossible. Mrs. March would not hear of the old
gentleman's undertaking the long journey, yet an expression of
relief was visible when he spoke of it, for anxiety ill fits one
for traveling. He saw the look, knit his heavy eyebrows, rubbed his
hands, and marched abruptly away, saying he'd be back directly. No
one had time to think of him again till, as Meg ran through the
entry, with a pair of rubbers in one hand and a cup of tea in the
other, she came suddenly upon Mr. Brooke.
