
"Didn't you feel dreadfully when the first cut came?" asked Meg,
with a shiver.

"I took a last look at my hair while the man got his things, and
that was the end of it. I never snivel over trifles like that. I
will confess, though, I felt queer when I saw the dear old hair
laid out on the table, and felt only the short rough ends of my
head. It almost seemed as if I'd an arm or leg off. The woman saw
me look at it, and picked out a long lock for me to keep. I'll give
it to you, Marmee, just to remember past glories by, for a crop is
so comfortable I don't think I shall ever have a mane again."

Mrs. March folded the wavy chestnut lock, and laid it away with
a short gray one in her desk. She only said, "Thank you, deary,"
but something in her face made the girls change the subject, and
talk as cheerfully as they could about Mr. Brooke's kindness, the
prospect of a fine day tomorrow, and the happy times they would
have when Father came home to be nursed.

No one wanted to go to bed when at ten o'clock Mrs. March put by
the last finished job, and said, "Come girls." Beth went to the
piano and played the father's favorite hymn. All began bravely, but
broke down one by one till Beth was left alone, singing with all
her heart, for to her music was always a sweet consoler.

"Go to bed and don't talk, for we must be up early and shall
need all the sleep we can get. Good night, my darlings," said Mrs.
March, as the hymn ended, for no one cared to try another.

They kissed her quietly, and went to bed as silently as if the
dear invalid lay in the next room. Beth and Amy soon fell asleep in
spite of the great trouble, but Meg lay awake, thinking the most
serious thoughts she had ever known in her short life. Jo lay
motionless, and her sister fancied that she was asleep, till a
stifled sob made her exclaim, as she touched a wet cheek…

"Jo, dear, what is it? Are you crying about father?"

"No, not now."

"What then?"

"My… My hair!" burst out poor Jo, trying vainly to smother her
emotion in the pillow.

