


Chapter

17
Little Faithful


For a week the amount of virtue in the old house would have
supplied the neighborhood. It was really amazing, for everyone
seemed in a heavenly frame of mind, and self-denial was all the
fashion. Relieved of their first anxiety about their father, the
girls insensibly relaxed their praiseworthy efforts a little, and
began to fall back into old ways. They did not forget their motto,
but hoping and keeping busy seemed to grow easier, and after such
tremendous exertions, they felt that Endeavor deserved a holiday,
and gave it a good many.

Jo caught a bad cold through neglect to cover the shorn head
enough, and was ordered to stay at home till she was better, for
Aunt March didn't like to hear people read with colds in their
heads. Jo liked this, and after an energetic rummage from garret to
cellar, subsided on the sofa to nurse her cold with arsenicum and
books. Amy found that housework and art did not go well together,
and returned to her mud pies. Meg went daily to her pupils, and
sewed, or thought she did, at home, but much time was spent in
writing long letters to her mother, or reading the Washington
dispatches over and over. Beth kept on, with only slight relapses
into idleness or grieving.

All the little duties were faithfully done each day, and many of
her sisters' also, for they were forgetful, and the house seemed
like a clock whose pendulum was gone a-visiting. When her heart got
heavy with longings for Mother or fears for Father, she went away
into a certain closet, hid her face in the folds of a dear old
gown, and made her little moan and prayed her little prayer quietly
by herself. Nobody knew what cheered her up after a sober fit, but
everyone felt how sweet and helpful Beth was, and fell into a way
of going to her for comfort or advice in their small affairs.

All were unconscious that this experience was a test of
character, and when the first excitement was over, felt that they
had done well and deserved praise. So they did, but their mistake
was in ceasing to do well, and they learned this lesson through
much anxiety and regret.

"Meg, I wish you'd go and see the Hummels. You know Mother told
us not to forget them." said Beth, ten days after Mrs. March's
departure.

"I'm too tired to go this afternoon," replied Meg, rocking
comfortably as she sewed.

"Can't you, Jo?" asked Beth.
