Beth played her gayest march, Amy threw open the door, and Meg
enacted escort with great dignity. Mrs. March was both surprised
and touched, and smiled with her eyes full as she examined her
presents and read the little notes which accompanied them. The
slippers went on at once, a new handkerchief was slipped into her
pocket, well scented with Amy's cologne, the rose was fastened in
her bosom, and the nice gloves were pronounced a perfect fit.

There was a good deal of laughing and kissing and explaining, in
the simple, loving fashion which makes these home festivals so
pleasant at the time, so sweet to remember long afterward, and then
all fell to work.

The morning charities and ceremonies took so much time that the
rest of the day was devoted to preparations for the evening
festivities. Being still too young to go often to the theater, and
not rich enough to afford any great outlay for private
performances, the girls put their wits to work, and necessity being
the mother of invention, made whatever they needed. Very clever
were some of their productions, pasteboard guitars, antique lamps
made of old-fashioned butter boats covered with silver paper,
gorgeous robes of old cotton, glittering with tin spangles from a
pickle factory, and armor covered with the same useful diamond
shaped bits left in sheets when the lids of preserve pots were cut
out. The big chamber was the scene of many innocent revels.

No gentleman were admitted, so Jo played male parts to her
heart's content and took immense satisfaction in a pair of russet
leather boots given her by a friend, who knew a lady who knew an
actor. These boots, an old foil, and a slashed doublet once used by
an artist for some picture, were Jo's chief treasures and appeared
on all occasions. The smallness of the company made it necessary
for the two principal actors to take several parts apiece, and they
certainly deserved some credit for the hard work they did in
learning three or four different parts, whisking in and out of
various costumes, and managing the stage besides. It was excellent
drill for their memories, a harmless amusement, and employed many
hours which otherwise would have been idle, lonely, or spent in
less profitable society.

On Christmas night, a dozen girls piled onto the bed which was
the dress circle, and sat before the blue and yellow chintz
curtains in a most flattering state of expectancy. There was a good
deal of rustling and whispering behind the curtain, a trifle of
lamp smoke, and an occasional giggle from Amy, who was apt to get
hysterical in the excitement of the moment. Presently a bell
sounded, the curtains flew apart, and the&#160;
operatic
tragedy
&#160;began.

"A gloomy wood," according to the one playbill, was represented
by a few shrubs in pots, green baize on the floor, and a cave in
the distance. This cave was made with a clothes horse for a roof,
bureaus for walls, and in it was a small furnace in full blast,
with a black pot on it and an old witch bending over it. The stage
was dark and the glow of the furnace had a fine effect, especially
as real steam issued from the kettle when the witch took off the
cover. A moment was allowed for the first thrill to subside, then
Hugo, the villain, stalked in with a clanking sword at his side, a
slouching hat, black beard, mysterious cloak, and the boots. After
pacing to and fro in much agitation, he struck his forehead, and
burst out in a wild strain, singing of his hatred for Roderigo, his
love for Zara, and his pleasing resolution to kill the one and win
the other. The gruff tones of Hugo's voice, with an occasional
shout when his feelings overcame him, were very impressive, and the
audience applauded the moment he paused for breath. Bowing with the
air of one accustomed to public praise, he stole to the cavern and
ordered Hagar to come forth with a commanding, "What ho, minion! I
need thee!"

Out came Meg, with gray horsehair hanging about her face, a red
and black robe, a staff, and cabalistic signs upon her cloak. Hugo
demanded a potion to make Zara adore him, and one to destroy
Roderigo. Hagar, in a fine dramatic melody, promised both, and
proceeded to call up the spirit who would bring the love
philter.


Hither, hither, from thy home,
Airy sprite, I bid thee come!
Born of roses, fed on dew,
Charms and potions canst thou brew?
