Bring me here, with elfin speed,
The fragrant philter which I need.
Make it sweet and swift and strong,
Spirit, answer now my song!


A soft strain of music sounded, and then at the back of the cave
appeared a little figure in cloudy white, with glittering wings,
golden hair, and a garland of roses on its head. Waving a wand, it
sang…


Hither I come,
From my airy home,
Afar in the silver moon.
Take the magic spell,
And use it well,
Or its power will vanish soon!


And dropping a small, gilded bottle at the witch's feet, the
spirit vanished. Another chant from Hagar produced another
apparition, not a lovely one, for with a bang an ugly black imp
appeared and, having croaked a reply, tossed a dark bottle at Hugo
and disappeared with a mocking laugh. Having warbled his thanks and
put the potions in his boots, Hugo departed, and Hagar informed the
audience that as he had killed a few of her friends in times past,
she had cursed him, and intends to thwart his plans, and be
revenged on him. Then the curtain fell, and the audience reposed
and ate candy while discussing the merits of the play.

A good deal of hammering went on before the curtain rose again,
but when it became evident what a masterpiece of stage carpentery
had been got up, no one murmured at the delay. It was truly superb.
A tower rose to the ceiling, halfway up appeared a window with a
lamp burning in it, and behind the white curtain appeared Zara in a
lovely blue and silver dress, waiting for Roderigo. He came in
gorgeous array, with plumed cap, red cloak, chestnut lovelocks, a
guitar, and the boots, of course. Kneeling at the foot of the
tower, he sang a serenade in melting tones. Zara replied and, after
a musical dialogue, consented to fly. Then came the grand effect of
the play. Roderigo produced a rope ladder, with five steps to it,
threw up one end, and invited Zara to descend. Timidly she crept
from her lattice, put her hand on Roderigo's shoulder, and was
about to leap gracefully down when "Alas! Alas for Zara!" she
forgot her train. It caught in the window, the tower tottered,
leaned forward, fell with a crash, and buried the unhappy lovers in
the ruins.

