
As Amy pointed to the smiling Christ child on his Mother's knee,
Mrs. March saw something on the lifted hand that made her smile.
She said nothing, but Amy understood the look, and after a minute's
pause, she added gravely, "I wanted to speak to you about this, but
I forgot it. Aunt gave me the ring today. She called me to her and
kissed me, and put it on my finger, and said I was a credit to her,
and she'd like to keep me always. She gave that funny guard to keep
the turquoise on, as it's too big. I'd like to wear them Mother,
can I?"

"They are very pretty, but I think you're rather too young for
such ornaments, Amy," said Mrs. March, looking at the plump little
hand, with the band of sky-blue stones on the forefinger, and the
quaint guard formed of two tiny golden hands clasped together.

"I'll try not to be vain," said Amy. "I don't think I like it
only because it's so pretty, but I want to wear it as the girl in
the story wore her bracelet, to remind me of something."

"Do you mean Aunt March?" asked her mother, laughing.

"No, to remind me not to be selfish." Amy looked so earnest and
sincere about it that her mother stopped laughing, and listened
respectfully to the little plan.

"I've thought a great deal lately about my 'bundle of
naughties', and being selfish is the largest one in it, so I'm
going to try hard to cure it, if I can. Beth isn't selfish, and
that's the reason everyone loves her and feels so bad at the
thoughts of losing her. People wouldn't feel so bad about me if I
was sick, and I don't deserve to have them, but I'd like to be
loved and missed by a great many friends, so I'm going to try and
be like Beth all I can. I'm apt to forget my resolutions, but if I
had something always about me to remind me, I guess I should do
better. May we try this way?"

"Yes, but I have more faith in the corner of the big closet.
Wear your ring, dear, and do your best. I think you will prosper,
for the sincere wish to be good is half the battle. Now I must go
back to Beth. Keep up your heart, little daughter, and we will soon
have you home again."

That evening while Meg was writing to her father to report the
traveler's safe arrival, Jo slipped upstairs into Beth's room, and
finding her mother in her usual place, stood a minute twisting her
fingers in her hair, with a worried gesture and an undecided
look.

"What is it, deary?" asked Mrs. March, holding out her hand,
with a face which invited confidence.

"I want to tell you something, Mother."

