
"Of course not. It would be idiotic! I knew there was mischief
brewing. I felt it, and now it's worse than I imagined. I just wish
I could marry Meg myself, and keep her safe in the family."

This odd arrangement made Mrs. March smile, but she said
gravely, "Jo, I confide in you and don't wish you to say anything
to Meg yet. When John comes back, and I see them together, I can
judge better of her feelings toward him."

"She'll see those handsome eyes that she talks about, and then
it will be all up with her. She's got such a soft heart, it will
melt like butter in the sun if anyone looks sentimentlly at her.
She read the short reports he sent more than she did your letters,
and pinched me when I spoke of it, and likes brown eyes, and
doesn't think John an ugly name, and she'll go and fall in love,
and there's an end of peace and fun, and cozy times together. I see
it all! They'll go lovering around the house, and we shall have to
dodge. Meg will be absorbed and no good to me any more. Brooke will
scratch up a fortune somehow, carry her off, and make a hole in the
family, and I shall break my heart, and everything will be
abominably uncomfortable. Oh, dear me! Why weren't we all boys,
then there wouldn't be any bother."

Jo leaned her chin on her knees in a disconsolate attitude and
shook her fist at the reprehensible John. Mrs. March sighed, and Jo
looked up with an air of relief.

"You don't like it, Mother? I'm glad of it. Let's send him about
his business, and not tell Meg a word of it, but all be happy
together as we always have been."

"I did wrong to sigh, Jo. It is natural and right you should all
go to homes of your own in time, but I do want to keep my girls as
long as I can, and I am sorry that this happened so soon, for Meg
is only seventeen and it will be some years before John can make a
home for her. Your father and I have agreed that she shall not bind
herself in any way, nor be married, before twenty. If she and John
love one another, they can wait, and test the love by doing so. She
is conscientious, and I have no fear of her treating him unkindly.
My pretty, tender hearted girl! I hope things will go happily with
her."

"Hadn't you rather have her marry a rich man?" asked Jo, as her
mother's voice faltered a little over the last words.

"Money is a good and useful thing, Jo, and I hope my girls will
never feel the need of it too bitterly, nor be tempted by too much.
I should like to know that John was firmly established in some good
business, which gave him an income large enough to keep free from
debt and make Meg comfortable. I'm not ambitious for a splendid
fortune, a fashionable position, or a great name for my girls. If
rank and money come with love and virtue, also, I should accept
them gratefully, and enjoy your good fortune, but I know, by
experience, how much genuine happiness can be had in a plain little
house, where the daily bread is earned, and some privations give
sweetness to the few pleasures. I am content to see Meg begin
humbly, for if I am not mistaken, she will be rich in the
possession of a good man's heart, and that is better than a
fortune."

"I understand, Mother, and quite agree, but I'm disappointed
about Meg, for I'd planned to have her marry Teddy by-and-by and
sit in the lap of luxury all her days. Wouldn't it be nice?" asked
Jo, looking up with a brighter face.

"He is younger than she, you know," began Mrs. March, but Jo
broke in…

