"Stop, Jo, you must clear yourself first. You have played so
many pranks that I am afraid you have had a hand in this."

"On my word, Mother, I haven't! I never saw that note before,
and don't know anything about it, as true as I live!" said Jo, so
earnestly that they believed her. "If I had taken part in it I'd
have done it better than this, and have written a sensible note. I
should think you'd have known Mr. Brooke wouldn't write such stuff
as that," she added, scornfully tossing down the paper.

"It's like his writing," faltered Meg, comparing it with the
note in her hand.

"Oh, Meg, you didn't answer it?" cried Mrs. March quickly.

"Yes, I did!" and Meg hid her face again, overcome with
shame.

"Here's a scrape! Do let me bring that wicked boy over to
explain and be lectured. I can't rest till I get hold of him." And
Jo made for the door again.

"Hush! Let me handle this, for it is worse than I thought.
Margaret, tell me the whole story," commanded Mrs. March, sitting
down by Meg, yet keeping hold of Jo, lest she should fly off.

"I received the first letter from Laurie, who didn't look as if
he knew anything about it," began Meg, without looking up. "I was
worried at first and meant to tell you, then I remembered how you
liked Mr. Brooke, so I thought you wouldn't mind if I kept my
little secret for a few days. I'm so silly that I liked to think no
one knew, and while I was deciding what to say, I felt like the
girls in books, who have such things to do. Forgive me, Mother, I'm
paid for my silliness now. I never can look him in the face
again."

"What did you say to him?" asked Mrs. March.

"I only said I was too young to do anything about it yet, that I
didn't wish to have secrets from you, and he must speak to father.
I was very grateful for his kindness, and would be his friend, but
nothing more, for a long while."

Mrs. March smiled, as if well pleased, and Jo clapped her hands,
exclaiming, with a laugh, "You are almost equal to Caroline Percy,
who was a pattern of prudence! Tell on, Meg. What did he say to
that?"
