
"He writes in a different way entirely, telling me that he never
sent any love letter at all, and is very sorry that my roguish
sister, Jo, should take liberties with our names. It's very kind
and respectful, but think how dreadful for me!"

Meg leaned against her mother, looking the image of despair, and
Jo tramped about the room, calling Laurie names. All of a sudden
she stopped, caught up the two notes, and after looking at them
closely, said decidedly, "I don't believe Brooke ever saw either of
these letters. Teddy wrote both, and keeps yours to crow over me
with because I wouldn't tell him my secret."

"Don't have any secrets, Jo. Tell it to Mother and keep out of
trouble, as I should have done," said Meg warningly.

"Bless you, child! Mother told me."

"That will do, Jo. I'll comfort Meg while you go and get Laurie.
I shall sift the matter to the bottom, and put a stop to such
pranks at once."

Away ran Jo, and Mrs. March gently told Meg Mr. Brooke's real
feelings. "Now, dear, what are your own? Do you love him enough to
wait till he can make a home for you, or will you keep yourself
quite free for the present?"

"I've been so scared and worried, I don't want to have anything
to do with lovers for a long while, perhaps never," answered Meg
petulantly. "If John doesn't know anything about this nonsense,
don't tell him, and make Jo and Laurie hold their tongues. I won't
be deceived and plagued and made a fool of. It's a shame!"

Seeing Meg's usually gentle temper was roused and her pride hurt
by this mischievous joke, Mrs. March soothed her by promises of
entire silence and great discretion for the future. The instant
Laurie's step was heard in the hall, Meg fled into the study, and
Mrs. March received the culprit alone. Jo had not told him why he
was wanted, fearing he wouldn't come, but he knew the minute he saw
Mrs. March's face, and stood twirling his hat with a guilty air
which convicted him at once. Jo was dismissed, but chose to march
up and down the hall like a sentinel, having some fear that the
prisoner might bolt. The sound of voices in the parlor rose and
fell for half an hour, but what happened during that interview the
girls never knew.

When they were called in, Laurie was standing by their mother
with such a penitent face that Jo forgave him on the spot, but did
not think it wise to betray the fact. Meg received his humble
apology, and was much comforted by the assurance that Brooke knew
nothing of the joke.

"I'll never tell him to my dying day, wild horses shan't drag it
out of me, so you'll forgive me, Meg, and I'll do anything to show
how out-and-out sorry I am," he added, looking very much ashamed of
himself.

