
"Mother did it." And Meg smiled her sweetest, in spite of her
gray beard and white eyebrows.

"Aunt March had a good fit and sent the supper," cried Jo, with
a sudden inspiration.

"All wrong. Old Mr. Laurence sent it," replied Mrs. March.

"The Laurence boy's grandfather! What in the world put such a
thing into his head? We don't know him!" exclaimed Meg.

"Hannah told one of his servants about your breakfast party. He
is an odd old gentleman, but that pleased him. He knew my father
years ago, and he sent me a polite note this afternoon, saying he
hoped I would allow him to express his friendly feeling toward my
children by sending them a few trifles in honor of the day. I could
not refuse, and so you have a little feast at night to make up for
the bread-and-milk breakfast."

"That boy put it into his head, I know he did! He's a capital
fellow, and I wish we could get acquainted. He looks as if he'd
like to know us but he's bashful, and Meg is so prim she won't let
me speak to him when we pass," said Jo, as the plates went round,
and the ice began to melt out of sight, with ohs and ahs of
satisfaction.

"You mean the people who live in the big house next door, don't
you?" asked one of the girls. "My mother knows old Mr. Laurence,
but says he's very proud and doesn't like to mix with his
neighbors. He keeps his grandson shut up, when he isn't riding or
walking with his tutor, and makes him study very hard. We invited
him to our party, but he didn't come. Mother says he's very nice,
though he never speaks to us girls."

"Our cat ran away once, and he brought her back, and we talked
over the fence, and were getting on capitally, all about cricket,
and so on, when he saw Meg coming, and walked off. I mean to know
him some day, for he needs fun, I'm sure he does," said Jo
decidedly.

"I like his manners, and he looks like a little gentleman, so
I've no objection to your knowing him, if a proper opportunity
comes. He brought the flowers himself, and I should have asked him
in, if I had been sure what was going on upstairs. He looked so
wistful as he went away, hearing the frolic and evidently having
none of his own."

"It's a mercy you didn't, Mother!" laughed Jo, looking at her
boots. "But we'll have another play sometime that he can see.
Perhaps he'll help act. Wouldn't that be jolly?"

