It was not at all romantic, but a hearty laugh set everybody
straight again, for Hannah was discovered behind the door, sobbing
over the fat turkey, which she had forgotten to put down when she
rushed up from the kitchen. As the laugh subsided, Mrs. March began
to thank Mr. Brooke for his faithful care of her husband, at which
Mr. Brooke suddenly remembered that Mr. March needed rest, and
seizing Laurie, he precipitately retired. Then the two invalids
were ordered to repose, which they did, by both sitting in one big
chair and talking hard.

Mr. March told how he had longed to surprise them, and how, when
the fine weather came, he had been allowed by his doctor to take
advantage of it, how devoted Brooke had been, and how he was
altogether a most estimable and upright young man. Why Mr. March
paused a minute just there, and after a glance at Meg, who was
violently poking the fire, looked at his wife with an inquiring
lift of the eyebrows, I leave you to imagine. Also why Mrs. March
gently nodded her head and asked, rather abruptly, if he wouldn't
like to have something to eat. Jo saw and understood the look, and
she stalked grimly away to get wine and beef tea, muttering to
herself as she slammed the door, "I hate estimable young men with
brown eyes!"

There never was such a Christmas dinner as they had that day.
The fat turkey was a sight to behold, when Hannah sent him up,
stuffed, browned, and decorated. So was the plum pudding, which
melted in one's mouth, likewise the jellies, in which Amy reveled
like a fly in a honeypot. Everything turned out well, which was a
mercy, Hannah said, "For my mind was that flustered, Mum, that it's
a merrycle I didn't roast the pudding, and stuff the turkey with
raisins, let alone bilin' of it in a cloth."

Mr. Laurence and his grandson dined with them, also Mr. Brooke,
at whom Jo glowered darkly, to Laurie's infinite amusement. Two
easy chairs stood side by side at the head of the table, in which
sat Beth and her father, feasting modestly on chicken and a little
fruit. They drank healths, told stories, sang songs, 'reminisced',
as the old folks say, and had a thoroughly good time. A sleigh ride
had been planned, but the girls would not leave their father, so
the guests departed early, and as twilight gathered, the happy
family sat together round the fire.

"Just a year ago we were groaning over the dismal Christmas we
expected to have. Do you remember?" asked Jo, breaking a short
pause which had followed a long conversation about many things.

"Rather a pleasant year on the whole!" said Meg, smiling at the
fire, and congratulating herself on having treated Mr. Brooke with
dignity.

"I think it's been a pretty hard one," observed Amy, watching
the light shine on her ring with thoughtful eyes.

"I'm glad it's over, because we've got you back," whispered
Beth, who sat on her father's knee.

"Rather a rough road for you to travel, my little pilgrims,
especially the latter part of it. But you have got on bravely, and
I think the burdens are in a fair way to tumble off very soon,"
said Mr. March, looking with fatherly satisfaction at the four
young faces gathered round him.

"How do you know? Did Mother tell you?" asked Jo.

"Not much. Straws show which way the wind blows, and I've made
several discoveries today."
