"Don't think of me at all. I'd rather you wouldn't," said Meg,
taking a naughty satisfaction in trying her lover's patience and
her own power.

He was grave and pale now, and looked decidedly more like the
novel heroes whom she admired, but he neither slapped his forehead
nor tramped about the room as they did. He just stood looking at
her so wistfully, so tenderly, that she found her heart relenting
in spite of herself. What would have happened next I cannot say, if
Aunt March had not come hobbling in at this interesting minute.

The old lady couldn't resist her longing to see her nephew, for
she had met Laurie as she took her airing, and hearing of Mr.
March's arrival, drove straight out to see him. The family were all
busy in the back part of the house, and she had made her way
quietly in, hoping to surprise them. She did surprise two of them
so much that Meg started as if she had seen a ghost, and Mr. Brooke
vanished into the study.

"Bless me, what's all this?" cried the old lady with a rap of
her cane as she glanced from the pale young gentleman to the
scarlet young lady.

"It's Father's friend. I'm so surprised to see you!" stammered
Meg, feeling that she was in for a lecture now.

"That's evident," returned Aunt March, sitting down. "But what
is Father's friend saying to make you look like a peony? There's
mischief going on, and I insist upon knowing what it is," with
another rap.

"We were only talking. Mr. Brooke came for his umbrella," began
Meg, wishing that Mr. Brooke and the umbrella were safely out of
the house.

"Brooke? That boy's tutor? Ah! I understand now. I know all
about it. Jo blundered into a wrong message in one of your Father's
letters, and I made her tell me. You haven't gone and accepted him,
child?" cried Aunt March, looking scandalized.

"Hush! He'll hear. Shan't I call Mother?" said Meg, much
troubled.

"Not yet. I've something to say to you, and I must free my mind
at once. Tell me, do you mean to marry this Cook? If you do, not
one penny of my money ever goes to you. Remember that, and be a
sensible girl," said the old lady impressively.

Now Aunt March possessed in perfection the art of rousing the
spirit of opposition in the gentlest people, and enjoyed doing it.
The best of us have a spice of perversity in us, especially when we
are young and in love. If Aunt March had begged Meg to accept John
Brooke, she would probably have declared she couldn't think of it,
but as she was preemptorily ordered not to like him, she
immediately made up her mind that she would. Inclination as well as
perversity made the decision easy, and being already much excited,
Meg opposed the old lady with unusual spirit.
