
Here was another fine chance to make the crushing speech and the
stately exit, but Meg never thought of doing either, and disgraced
herself forever in Jo's eyes by meekly whispering, "Yes, John," and
hiding her face on Mr. Brooke's waistcoat.

Fifteen minutes after Aunt March's departure, Jo came softly
downstairs, paused an instant at the parlor door, and hearing no
sound within, nodded and smiled with a satisfied expression, saying
to herself, "She has seen him away as we planned, and that affair
is settled. I'll go and hear the fun, and have a good laugh over
it."

But poor Jo never got her laugh, for she was transfixed upon the
threshold by a spectacle which held her there, staring with her
mouth nearly as wide open as her eyes. Going in to exult over a
fallen enemy and to praise a strong-minded sister for the
banishment of an objectionable lover, it certainly was a shock to
behold the aforesaid enemy serenely sitting on the sofa, with the
strongminded sister enthroned upon his knee and wearing an
expression of the most abject submission. Jo gave a sort of gasp,
as if a cold shower bath had suddenly fallen upon her, for such an
unexpected turning of the tables actually took her breath away. At
the odd sound the lovers turned and saw her. Meg jumped up, looking
both proud and shy, but 'that man', as Jo called him, actually
laughed and said coolly, as he kissed the astonished newcomer,
"Sister Jo, congratulate us!"

That was adding insult to injury, it was altogether too much,
and making some wild demonstration with her hands, Jo vanished
without a word. Rushing upstairs, she startled the invalids by
exclaiming tragically as she burst into the room, "Oh, do somebody
go down quick! John Brooke is acting dreadfully, and Meg likes
it!"

Mr. and Mrs. March left the room with speed, and casting herself
upon the bed, Jo cried and scolded tempestuously as she told the
awful news to Beth and Amy. The little girls, however, considered
it a most agreeable and interesting event, and Jo got little
comfort from them, so she went up to her refuge in the garret, and
confided her troubles to the rats.

Nobody ever knew what went on in the parlor that afternoon, but
a great deal of talking was done, and quiet Mr. Brooke astonished
his friends by the eloquence and spirit with which he pleaded his
suit, told his plans, and persuaded them to arrange everything just
as he wanted it.

The tea bell rang before he had finished describing the paradise
which he meant to earn for Meg, and he proudly took her in to
supper, both looking so happy that Jo hadn't the heart to be
jealous or dismal. Amy was very much impressed by John's devotion
and Meg's dignity, Beth beamed at them from a distance, while Mr.
and Mrs. March surveyed the young couple with such tender
satisfaction that it was perfectly evident Aunt March was right in
calling them as 'unworldly as a pair of babies'. No one ate much,
but everyone looked very happy, and the old room seemed to brighten
up amazingly when the first romance of the family began there.

"You can't say nothing pleasant ever happens now, can you, Meg?"
said Amy, trying to decide how she would group the lovers in a
sketch she was planning to make.

"No, I'm sure I can't. How much has happened since I said that!
It seems a year ago," answered Meg, who was in a blissful dream
lifted far above such common things as bread and butter.

"The joys come close upon the sorrows this time, and I rather
think the changes have begun," said Mrs. March. "In most families
there comes, now and then, a year full of events. This has been
such a one, but it ends well, after all."

