


Chapter

1
Gossip


In order that we may start afresh and go to Meg's wedding with
free minds, it will be well to begin with a little gossip about the
Marches. And here let me premise that if any of the elders think
there is too much 'lovering' in the story, as I fear they may (I'm
not afraid the young folks will make that objection), I can only
say with Mrs. March, "What can you expect when I have four gay
girls in the house, and a dashing young neighbor over the way?"

The three years that have passed have brought but few changes to
the quiet family. The war is over, and Mr. March safely at home,
busy with his books and the small parish which found in him a
minister by nature as by grace, a quiet, studious man, rich in the
wisdom that is better than learning, the charity which calls all
mankind 'brother', the piety that blossoms into character, making
it august and lovely.

These attributes, in spite of poverty and the strict integrity
which shut him out from the more worldly successes, attracted to
him many admirable persons, as naturally as sweet herbs draw bees,
and as naturally he gave them the honey into which fifty years of
hard experience had distilled no bitter drop. Earnest young men
found the gray-headed scholar as young at heart as they; thoughtful
or troubled women instinctively brought their doubts to him, sure
of finding the gentlest sympathy, the wisest counsel. Sinners told
their sins to the pure-hearted old man and were both rebuked and
saved. Gifted men found a companion in him. Ambitious men caught
glimpses of nobler ambitions than their own, and even worldlings
confessed that his beliefs were beautiful and true, although 'they
wouldn't pay'.

To outsiders the five energetic women seemed to rule the house,
and so they did in many things, but the quiet scholar, sitting
among his books, was still the head of the family, the household
conscience, anchor, and comforter, for to him the busy, anxious
women always turned in troublous times, finding him, in the truest
sense of those sacred words, husband and father.

The girls gave their hearts into their mother's keeping, their
souls into their father's, and to both parents, who lived and
labored so faithfully for them, they gave a love that grew with
their growth and bound them tenderly together by the sweetest tie
which blesses life and outlives death.

Mrs. March is as brisk and cheery, though rather grayer, than
when we saw her last, and just now so absorbed in Meg's affairs
that the hospitals and homes still full of wounded 'boys' and
soldiers' widows, decidedly miss the motherly missionary's
visits.

John Brooke did his duty manfully for a year, got wounded, was
sent home, and not allowed to return. He received no stars or bars,
but he deserved them, for he cheerfully risked all he had, and life
and love are very precious when both are in full bloom. Perfectly
resigned to his discharge, he devoted himself to getting well,
preparing for business, and earning a home for Meg. With the good
sense and sturdy independence that characterized him, he refused
Mr. Laurence's more generous offers, and accepted the place of
bookkeeper, feeling better satisfied to begin with an honestly
earned salary than by running any risks with borrowed money.
