What happy times they had planning together, what solemn
shopping excursions, what funny mistakes they made, and what shouts
of laughter arose over Laurie's ridiculous bargains. In his love of
jokes, this young gentleman, though nearly through college, was a
much of a boy as ever. His last whim had been to bring with him on
his weekly visits some new, useful, and ingenious article for the
young housekeeper. Now a bag of remarkable clothespins, next, a
wonderful nutmeg grater which fell to pieces at the first trial, a
knife cleaner that spoiled all the knives, or a sweeper that picked
the nap neatly off the carpet and left the dirt, labor-saving soap
that took the skin off one's hands, infallible cements which stuck
firmly to nothing but the fingers of the deluded buyer, and every
kind of tinware, from a toy savings bank for odd pennies, to a
wonderful boiler which would wash articles in its own steam with
every prospect of exploding in the process.

In vain Meg begged him to stop. John laughed at him, and Jo
called him 'Mr. Toodles'. He was possessed with a mania for
patronizing Yankee ingenuity, and seeing his friends fitly
furnished forth. So each week beheld some fresh absurdity.

Everything was done at last, even to Amy's arranging different
colored soaps to match the different colored rooms, and Beth's
setting the table for the first meal.

"Are you satisfied? Does it seem like home, and do you feel as
if you should be happy here?" asked Mrs. March, as she and her
daughter went through the new kingdom arm in arm, for just then
they seemed to cling together more tenderly than ever.

"Yes, Mother, perfectly satisfied, thanks to you all, and so
happy that I can't talk about it," with a look that was far better
than words.

"If she only had a servant or two it would be all right," said
Amy, coming out of the parlor, where she had been trying to decide
whether the bronze Mercury looked best on the whatnot or the
mantlepiece.

"Mother and I have talked that over, and I have made up my mind
to try her way first. There will be so little to do that with Lotty
to run my errands and help me here and there, I shall only have
enough work to keep me from getting lazy or homesick," answered Meg
tranquilly.

"Sallie Moffat has four," began Amy.

"If Meg had four, the house wouldn't hold them, and master and
missis would have to camp in the garden," broke in Jo, who,
enveloped in a big blue pinafore, was giving the last polish to the
door handles.

"Sallie isn't a poor man's wife, and many maids are in keeping
with her fine establishment. Meg and John begin humbly, but I have
a feeling that there will be quite as much happiness in the little
house as in the big one. It's a great mistake for young girls like
Meg to leave themselves nothing to do but dress, give orders, and
gossip. When I was first married, I used to long for my new clothes
to wear out or get torn, so that I might have the pleasure of
mending them, for I got heartily sick of doing fancywork and
tending my pocket handkerchief."

"Why didn't you go into the kitchen and make messes, as Sallie
says she does to amuse herself, though they never turn out well and
the servants laugh at her," said Meg.
