
"I did after a while, not to 'mess' but to learn of Hannah how
things should be done, that my servants need not laugh at me. It
was play then, but there came a time when I was truly grateful that
I not only possessed the will but the power to cook wholesome food
for my little girls, and help myself when I could no longer afford
to hire help. You begin at the other end, Meg, dear, but the
lessons you learn now will be of use to you by-and-by when John is
a richer man, for the mistress of a house, however splendid, should
know how work ought to be done, if she wishes to be well and
honestly served."

"Yes, Mother, I'm sure of that," said Meg, listening
respectfully to the little lecture, for the best of women will hold
forth upon the all absorbing subject of house keeping. "Do you know
I like this room most of all in my baby house," added Meg, a minute
after, as they went upstairs and she looked into her well-stored
linen closet.

Beth was there, laying the snowy piles smoothly on the shelves
and exulting over the goodly array. All three laughed as Meg spoke,
for that linen closet was a joke. You see, having said that if Meg
married 'that Brooke' she shouldn't have a cent of her money, Aunt
March was rather in a quandary when time had appeased her wrath and
made her repent her vow. She never broke her word, and was much
exercised in her mind how to get round it, and at last devised a
plan whereby she could satisfy herself. Mrs. Carrol, Florence's
mamma, was ordered to buy, have made, and marked a generous supply
of house and table linen, and send it as her present, all of which
was faithfully done, but the secret leaked out, and was greatly
enjoyed by the family, for Aunt March tried to look utterly
unconscious, and insisted that she could give nothing but the
old-fashioned pearls long promised to the first bride.

"That's a housewifely taste which I am glad to see. I had a
young friend who set up housekeeping with six sheets, but she had
finger bowls for company and that satisfied her," said Mrs. March,
patting the damask tablecloths, with a truly feminine appreciation
of their fineness.

"I haven't a single finger bowl, but this is a setout that will
last me all my days, Hannah says." And Meg looked quite contented,
as well she might.

A tall, broad-shouldered young fellow, with a cropped head, a
felt basin of a hat, and a flyaway coat, came tramping down the
road at a great pace, walked over the low fence without stopping to
open the gate, straight up to Mrs. March, with both hands out and a
hearty…

"Here I am, Mother! Yes, it's all right."

The last words were in answer to the look the elder lady gave
him, a kindly questioning look which the handsome eyes met so
frankly that the little ceremony closed, as usual, with a motherly
kiss.

"For Mrs. John Brooke, with the maker's congratulations and
compliments. Bless you, Beth! What a refreshing spectacle you are,
Jo. Amy, you are getting altogether too handsome for a single
lady."

As Laurie spoke, he delivered a brown paper parcel to Meg,
pulled Beth's hair ribbon, stared at Jo's big pinafore, and fell
into an attitude of mock rapture before Amy, then shook hands all
round, and everyone began to talk.

