
Jo's angles are much softened, she has learned to carry herself
with ease, if not grace. The curly crop has lengthened into a thick
coil, more becoming to the small head atop of the tall figure.
There is a fresh color in her brown cheeks, a soft shine in her
eyes, and only gentle words fall from her sharp tongue today.

Beth has grown slender, pale, and more quiet than ever. The
beautiful, kind eyes are larger, and in them lies an expression
that saddens one, although it is not sad itself. It is the shadow
of pain which touches the young face with such pathetic patience,
but Beth seldom complains and always speaks hopefully of 'being
better soon'.

Amy is with truth considered 'the flower of the family', for at
sixteen she has the air and bearing of a full-grown woman, not
beautiful, but possessed of that indescribable charm called grace.
One saw it in the lines of her figure, the make and motion of her
hands, the flow of her dress, the droop of her hair, unconscious
yet harmonious, and as attractive to many as beauty itself. Amy's
nose still afflicted her, for it never would grow Grecian, so did
her mouth, being too wide, and having a decided chin. These
offending features gave character to her whole face, but she never
could see it, and consoled herself with her wonderfully fair
complexion, keen blue eyes, and curls more golden and abundant than
ever.

All three wore suits of thin silver gray (their best gowns for
the summer), with blush roses in hair and bosom, and all three
looked just what they were, fresh-faced, happy-hearted girls,
pausing a moment in their busy lives to read with wistful eyes the
sweetest chapter in the romance of womanhood.

There were to be no ceremonious performances, everything was to
be as natural and homelike as possible, so when Aunt March arrived,
she was scandalized to see the bride come running to welcome and
lead her in, to find the bridegroom fastening up a garland that had
fallen down, and to catch a glimpse of the paternal minister
marching upstairs with a grave countenance and a wine bottle under
each arm.

"Upon my word, here's a state of things!" cried the old lady,
taking the seat of honor prepared for her, and settling the folds
of her lavender moire with a great rustle. "You oughtn't to be seen
till the last minute, child."

"I'm not a show, Aunty, and no one is coming to stare at me, to
criticize my dress, or count the cost of my luncheon. I'm too happy
to care what anyone says or thinks, and I'm going to have my little
wedding just as I like it. John, dear, here's your hammer." And
away went Meg to help 'that man' in his highly improper
employment.

Mr. Brooke didn't even say, "Thank you," but as he stooped for
the unromantic tool, he kissed his little bride behind the folding
door, with a look that made Aunt March whisk out her pocket
handkerchief with a sudden dew in her sharp old eyes.

A crash, a cry, and a laugh from Laurie, accompanied by the
indecorous exclamation, "Jupiter Ammon! Jo's upset the cake again!"
caused a momentary flurry, which was hardly over when a flock of
cousins arrived, and 'the party came in', as Beth used to say when
a child.

"Don't let that young giant come near me, he worries me worse
than mosquitoes," whispered the old lady to Amy, as the rooms
filled and Laurie's black head towered above the rest.

