


Chapter

3
Artistic Attempts


It takes people a long time to learn the difference between
talent and genius, especially ambitious young men and women. Amy
was learning this distinction through much tribulation, for
mistaking enthusiasm for inspiration, she attempted every branch of
art with youthful audacity. For a long time there was a lull in the
'mud-pie' business, and she devoted herself to the finest
pen-and-ink drawing, in which she showed such taste and skill that
her graceful handiwork proved both pleasant and profitable. But
over-strained eyes caused pen and ink to be laid aside for a bold
attempt at poker-sketching. While this attack lasted, the family
lived in constant fear of a conflagration, for the odor of burning
wood pervaded the house at all hours, smoke issued from attic and
shed with alarming frequency, red-hot pokers lay about
promiscuously, and Hannah never went to bed without a pail of water
and the dinner bell at her door in case of fire. Raphael's face was
found boldly executed on the underside of the moulding board, and
Bacchus on the head of a beer barrel. A chanting cherub adorned the
cover of the sugar bucket, and attempts to portray Romeo and Juliet
supplied kindling for some time.

From fire to oil was a natural transition for burned fingers,
and Amy fell to painting with undiminished ardor. An artist friend
fitted her out with his castoff palettes, brushes, and colors, and
she daubed away, producing pastoral and marine views such as were
never seen on land or sea. Her monstrosities in the way of cattle
would have taken prizes at an agricultural fair, and the perilous
pitching of her vessels would have produced seasickness in the most
nautical observer, if the utter disregard to all known rules of
shipbuilding and rigging had not convulsed him with laughter at the
first glance. Swarthy boys and dark-eyed Madonnas, staring at you
from one corner of the studio, suggested Murillo; oily brown
shadows of faces with a lurid streak in the wrong place, meant
Rembrandt; buxom ladies and dropiscal infants, Rubens; and Turner
appeared in tempests of blue thunder, orange lightning, brown rain,
and purple clouds, with a tomato-colored splash in the middle,
which might be the sun or a bouy, a sailor's shirt or a king's
robe, as the spectator pleased.

Charcoal portraits came next, and the entire family hung in a
row, looking as wild and crocky as if just evoked from a coalbin.
Softened into crayon sketches, they did better, for the likenesses
were good, and Amy's hair, Jo's nose, Meg's mouth, and Laurie's
eyes were pronounced 'wonderfully fine'. A return to clay and
plaster followed, and ghostly casts of her acquaintances haunted
corners of the house, or tumbled off closet shelves onto people's
heads. Children were enticed in as models, till their incoherent
accounts of her mysterious doings caused Miss Amy to be regarded in
the light of a young ogress. Her efforts in this line, however,
were brought to an abrupt close by an untoward accident, which
quenched her ardor. Other models failing her for a time, she
undertook to cast her own pretty foot, and the family were one day
alarmed by an unearthly bumping and screaming and running to the
rescue, found the young enthusiast hopping wildly about the shed
with her foot held fast in a pan full of plaster, which had
hardened with unexpected rapidity. With much difficulty and some
danger she was dug out, for Jo was so overcome with laughter while
she excavated that her knife went too far, cut the poor foot, and
left a lasting memorial of one artistic attempt, at least.

After this Amy subsided, till a mania for sketching from nature
set her to haunting river, field, and wood, for picturesque
studies, and sighing for ruins to copy. She caught endless colds
sitting on damp grass to book 'a delicious bit', composed of a
stone, a stump, one mushroom, and a broken mullein stalk, or 'a
heavenly mass of clouds', that looked like a choice display of
featherbeds when done. She sacrificed her complexion floating on
the river in the midsummer sun to study light and shade, and got a
wrinkle over her nose trying after 'points of sight', or whatever
the squint-and-string performance is called.

If 'genius is eternal patience', as Michelangelo affirms, Amy
had some claim to the divine attribute, for she persevered in spite
of all obstacles, failures, and discouragements, firmly believing
that in time she should do something worthy to be called 'high
art'.

She was learning, doing, and enjoying other things, meanwhile,
for she had resolved to be an attractive and accomplished woman,
even if she never became a great artist. Here she succeeded better,
for she was one of those happily created beings who please without
effort, make friends everywhere, and take life so gracefully and
easily that less fortunate souls are tempted to believe that such
are born under a lucky star. Everybody liked her, for among her
good gifts was tact. She had an instinctive sense of what was
pleasing and proper, always said the right thing to the right
person, did just what suited the time and place, and was so
self-possessed that her sisters used to say, "If Amy went to court
without any rehearsal beforehand, she'd know exactly what to
do."

One of her weaknesses was a desire to move in 'our best
society', without being quite sure what the best really was. Money,
position, fashionable accomplishments, and elegant manners were
most desirable things in her eyes, and she liked to associate with
those who possessed them, often mistaking the false for the true,
and admiring what was not admirable. Never forgetting that by birth
she was a gentlewoman, she cultivated her aristocratic tastes and
feelings, so that when the opportunity came she might be ready to
take the place from which poverty now excluded her.
