
Amy recovered herself in a breath, set her basket boldly on the
seat, and said, laughing, "Don't you wish you were to have some of
the salad he's going to make, and to see the charming young ladies
who are to eat it?"

Now that was tact, for two of the ruling foibles of the
masculine mind were touched. The lobster was instantly surrounded
by a halo of pleasing reminiscences, and curiosity about 'the
charming young ladies' diverted his mind from the comical
mishap.

"I suppose he'll laugh and joke over it with Laurie, but I
shan't see them, that's a comfort," thought Amy, as Tudor bowed and
departed.

She did not mention this meeting at home (though she discovered
that, thanks to the upset, her new dress was much damaged by the
rivulets of dressing that meandered down the skirt), but went
through with the preparations which now seemed more irksome than
before, and at twelve o'clock all was ready again. Feeling that the
neighbors were interested in her movements, she wished to efface
the memory of yesterday's failure by a grand success today, so she
ordered the 'cherry bounce', and drove away in state to meet and
escort her guests to the banquet.

"There's the rumble, they're coming! I'll go onto the porch and
meet them. It looks hospitable, and I want the poor child to have a
good time after all her trouble," said Mrs. March, suiting the
action to the word. But after one glance, she retired, with an
indescribable expression, for looking quite lost in the big
carriage, sat Amy and one young lady.

"Run, Beth, and help Hannah clear half the things off the table.
It will be too absurd to put a luncheon for twelve before a single
girl," cried Jo, hurrying away to the lower regions, too excited to
stop even for a laugh.

In came Amy, quite calm and delightfully cordial to the one
guest who had kept her promise. The rest of the family, being of a
dramatic turn, played their parts equally well, and Miss Eliott
found them a most hilarious set, for it was impossible to control
entirely the merriment which possessed them. The remodeled lunch
being gaily partaken of, the studio and garden visited, and art
discussed with enthusiasm, Amy ordered a buggy (alas for the
elegant cherry-bounce), and drove her friend quietly about the
neighborhood till sunset, when 'the party went out'.

As she came walking in, looking very tired but as composed as
ever, she observed that every vestige of the unfortunate fete had
disappeared, except a suspicious pucker about the corners of Jo's
mouth.

"You've had a loverly afternoon for your drive, dear," said her
mother, as respectfully as if the whole twelve had come.

"Miss Eliott is a very sweet girl, and seemed to enjoy herself,
I thought," observed Beth, with unusual warmth.

