


Chapter

5
Domestic Experiences


Like most other young matrons, Meg began her married life with
the determination to be a model housekeeper. John should find home
a paradise, he should always see a smiling face, should fare
sumptuously every day, and never know the loss of a button. She
brought so much love, energy, and cheerfulness to the work that she
could not but succeed, in spite of some obstacles. Her paradise was
not a tranquil one, for the little woman fussed, was over-anxious
to please, and bustled about like a true Martha, cumbered with many
cares. She was too tired, sometimes, even to smile, John grew
dyspeptic after a course of dainty dishes and ungratefully demanded
plain fare. As for buttons, she soon learned to wonder where they
went, to shake her head over the carelessness of men, and to
threaten to make him sew them on himself, and see if his work would
stand impatient and clumsy fingers any better than hers.

They were very happy, even after they discovered that they
couldn't live on love alone. John did not find Meg's beauty
diminished, though she beamed at him from behind the familiar
coffee pot. Nor did Meg miss any of the romance from the daily
parting, when her husband followed up his kiss with the tender
inquiry, "Shall I send some veal or mutton for dinner, darling?"
The little house ceased to be a glorified bower, but it became a
home, and the young couple soon felt that it was a change for the
better. At first they played keep-house, and frolicked over it like
children. Then John took steadily to business, feeling the cares of
the head of a family upon his shoulders, and Meg laid by her
cambric wrappers, put on a big apron, and fell to work, as before
said, with more energy than discretion.

While the cooking mania lasted she went through Mrs. Cornelius's
Receipt Book as if it were a mathematical exercise, working out the
problems with patience and care. Sometimes her family were invited
in to help eat up a too bounteous feast of successes, or Lotty
would be privately dispatched with a batch of failures, which were
to be concealed from all eyes in the convenient stomachs of the
little Hummels. An evening with John over the account books usually
produced a temporary lull in the culinary enthusiasm, and a frugal
fit would ensue, during which the poor man was put through a course
of bread pudding, hash, and warmed-over coffee, which tried his
soul, although he bore it with praiseworthy fortitude. Before the
golden mean was found, however, Meg added to her domestic
possessions what young couples seldom get on long without, a family
jar.

Fired a with housewifely wish to see her storeroom stocked with
homemade preserves, she undertook to put up her own currant jelly.
John was requested to order home a dozen or so of little pots and
an extra quantity of sugar, for their own currants were ripe and
were to be attended to at once. As John firmly believed that 'my
wife' was equal to anything, and took a natural pride in her skill,
he resolved that she should be gratified, and their only crop of
fruit laid by in a most pleasing form for winter use. Home came
four dozen delightful little pots, half a barrel of sugar, and a
small boy to pick the currants for her. With her pretty hair tucked
into a little cap, arms bared to the elbow, and a checked apron
which had a coquettish look in spite of the bib, the young
housewife fell to work, feeling no doubts about her success, for
hadn't she seen Hannah do it hundreds of times? The array of pots
rather amazed her at first, but John was so fond of jelly, and the
nice little jars would look so well on the top shelf, that Meg
resolved to fill them all, and spent a long day picking, boiling,
straining, and fussing over her jelly. She did her best, she asked
advice of Mrs. Cornelius, she racked her brain to remember what
Hannah did that she left undone, she reboiled, resugared, and
restrained, but that dreadful stuff wouldn't 'jell'.

She longed to run home, bib and all, and ask Mother to lend her
a hand, but John and she had agreed that they would never annoy
anyone with their private worries, experiments, or quarrels. They
had laughed over that last word as if the idea it suggested was a
most preposterous one, but they had held to their resolve, and
whenever they could get on without help they did so, and no one
interfered, for Mrs. March had advised the plan. So Meg wrestled
alone with the refractory sweetmeats all that hot summer day, and
at five o'clock sat down in her topsy-turvey kitchen, wrung her
bedaubed hands, lifted up her voice and wept.

Now, in the first flush of the new life, she had often said, "My
husband shall always feel free to bring a friend home whenever he
likes. I shall always be prepared. There shall be no flurry, no
scolding, no discomfort, but a neat house, a cheerful wife, and a
good dinner. John, dear, never stop to ask my leave, invite whom
you please, and be sure of a welcome from me."

How charming that was, to be sure! John quite glowed with pride
to hear her say it, and felt what a blessed thing it was to have a
superior wife. But, although they had had company from time to
time, it never happened to be unexpected, and Meg had never had an
opportunity to distinguish herself till now. It always happens so
in this vale of tears, there is an inevitability about such things
which we can only wonder at, deplore, and bear as we best can.
