"I've no objection," was Meg's equally soothing remark. A few
other topics of general interest were introduced by Mr. Brooke and
wet-blanketed by Mrs. Brooke, and conversation languished. John
went to one window, unfolded his paper, and wrapped himself in it,
figuratively speaking. Meg went to the other window, and sewed as
if new rosettes for slippers were among the necessaries of life.
Neither spoke. Both looked quite 'calm and firm', and both felt
desperately uncomfortable.

"Oh, dear," thought Meg, "married life is very trying, and does
need infinite patience as well as love, as Mother says." The word
'Mother' suggested other maternal counsels given long ago, and
received with unbelieving protests.

"John is a good man, but he has his faults, and you must learn
to see and bear with them, remembering your own. He is very
decided, but never will be obstinate, if you reason kindly, not
oppose impatiently. He is very accurate, and particular about the
truth—a good trait, though you call him 'fussy'. Never deceive him
by look or word, Meg, and he will give you the confidence you
deserve, the support you need. He has a temper, not like ours—one
flash and then all over—but the white, still anger that is seldom
stirred, but once kindled is hard to quench. Be careful, be very
careful, not to wake his anger against yourself, for peace and
happiness depend on keeping his respect. Watch yourself, be the
first to ask pardon if you both err, and guard against the little
piques, misunderstandings, and hasty words that often pave the way
for bitter sorrow and regret."

These words came back to Meg, as she sat sewing in the sunset,
especially the last. This was the first serious disagreement, her
own hasty speeches sounded both silly and unkind, as she recalled
them, her own anger looked childish now, and thoughts of poor John
coming home to such a scene quite melted her heart. She glanced at
him with tears in her eyes, but he did not see them. She put down
her work and got up, thinking, "I will be the first to say,
'Forgive me'", but he did not seem to hear her. She went very
slowly across the room, for pride was hard to swallow, and stood by
him, but he did not turn his head. For a minute she felt as if she
really couldn't do it, then came the thought, "This is the
beginning. I'll do my part, and have nothing to reproach myself
with," and stooping down, she softly kissed her husband on the
forehead. Of course that settled it. The penitent kiss was better
than a world of words, and John had her on his knee in a minute,
saying tenderly…

"It was too bad to laugh at the poor little jelly pots. Forgive
me, dear. I never will again!"

But he did, oh bless you, yes, hundreds of times, and so did
Meg, both declaring that it was the sweetest jelly they ever made,
for family peace was preserved in that little family jar.

After this, Meg had Mr. Scott to dinner by special invitation,
and served him up a pleasant feast without a cooked wife for the
first course, on which occasion she was so gay and gracious, and
made everything go off so charmingly, that Mr. Scott told John he
was a lucky fellow, and shook his head over the hardships of
bachelorhood all the way home.

In the autumn, new trials and experiences came to Meg. Sallie
Moffat renewed her friendship, was always running out for a dish of
gossip at the little house, or inviting 'that poor dear' to come in
and spend the day at the big house. It was pleasant, for in dull
weather Meg often felt lonely. All were busy at home, John absent
till night, and nothing to do but sew, or read, or potter about. So
it naturally fell out that Meg got into the way of gadding and
gossiping with her friend. Seeing Sallie's pretty things made her
long for such, and pity herself because she had not got them.
Sallie was very kind, and often offered her the coveted trifles,
but Meg declined them, knowing that John wouldn't like it, and then
this foolish little woman went and did what John disliked even
worse.

She knew her husband's income, and she loved to feel that he
trusted her, not only with his happiness, but what some men seem to
value more—his money. She knew where it was, was free to take what
she liked, and all he asked was that she should keep account of
every penny, pay bills once a month, and remember that she was a
poor man's wife. Till now she had done well, been prudent and
exact, kept her little account books neatly, and showed them to him
monthly without fear. But that autumn the serpent got into Meg's
paradise, and tempted her like many a modern Eve, not with apples,
but with dress. Meg didn't like to be pitied and made to feel poor.
It irritated her, but she was ashamed to confess it, and now and
then she tried to console herself by buying something pretty, so
that Sallie needn't think she had to economize. She always felt
wicked after it, for the pretty things were seldom necessaries, but
then they cost so little, it wasn't worth worrying about, so the
trifles increased unconsciously, and in the shopping excursions she
was no longer a passive looker-on.

But the trifles cost more than one would imagine, and when she
cast up her accounts at the end of the month the sum total rather
scared her. John was busy that month and left the bills to her, the
next month he was absent, but the third he had a grand quarterly
settling up, and Meg never forgot it. A few days before she had
done a dreadful thing, and it weighed upon her conscience. Sallie
had been buying silks, and Meg longed for a new one, just a
handsome light one for parties, her black silk was so common, and
thin things for evening wear were only proper for girls. Aunt March
usually gave the sisters a present of twenty-five dollars apiece at
New Year's. That was only a month to wait, and here was a lovely
violet silk going at a bargain, and she had the money, if she only
dared to take it. John always said what was his was hers, but would
he think it right to spend not only the prospective
five-and-twenty, but another five-and-twenty out of the household
fund? That was the question. Sallie had urged her to do it, had
offered to lend the money, and with the best intentions in life had
tempted Meg beyond her strength. In an evil moment the shopman held
up the lovely, shimmering folds, and said, "A bargain, I assure,
you, ma'am." She answered, "I'll take it," and it was cut off and
paid for, and Sallie had exulted, and she had laughed as if it were
a thing of no consequence, and driven away, feeling as if she had
stolen something, and the police were after her.

When she got home, she tried to assuage the pangs of remorse by
spreading forth the lovely silk, but it looked less silvery now,
didn't become her, after all, and the words 'fifty dollars' seemed
stamped like a pattern down each breadth. She put it away, but it
haunted her, not delightfully as a new dress should, but dreadfully
like the ghost of a folly that was not easily laid. When John got
out his books that night, Meg's heart sank, and for the first time
in her married life, she was afraid of her husband. The kind, brown
eyes looked as if they could be stern, and though he was unusually
merry, she fancied he had found her out, but didn't mean to let her
know it. The house bills were all paid, the books all in order.
John had praised her, and was undoing the old pocketbook which they
called the 'bank', when Meg, knowing that it was quite empty,
stopped his hand, saying nervously…
