"Hold it up when you walk, but drop it in the house. The
sweeping style suits you best, and you must learn to trail your
skirts gracefully. You haven't half buttoned one cuff, do it at
once. You'll never look finished if you are not careful about the
little details, for they make up the pleasing whole."

Jo sighed, and proceeded to burst the buttons off her glove, in
doing up her cuff, but at last both were ready, and sailed away,
looking as 'pretty as picters', Hannah said, as she hung out of the
upper window to watch them.

"Now, Jo dear, the Chesters consider themselves very elegant
people, so I want you to put on your best deportment. Don't make
any of your abrupt remarks, or do anything odd, will you? Just be
calm, cool, and quiet, that's safe and ladylike, and you can easily
do it for fifteen minutes," said Amy, as they approached the first
place, having borrowed the white parasol and been inspected by Meg,
with a baby on each arm.

"Let me see. 'Calm, cool, and quiet', yes, I think I can promise
that. I've played the part of a prim young lady on the stage, and
I'll try it off. My powers are great, as you shall see, so be easy
in your mind, my child."

Amy looked relieved, but naughty Jo took her at her word, for
during the first call she sat with every limb gracefully composed,
every fold correctly draped, calm as a summer sea, cool as a
snowbank, and as silent as the sphinx. In vain Mrs. Chester alluded
to her 'charming novel', and the Misses Chester introduced parties,
picnics, the opera, and the fashions. Each and all were answered by
a smile, a bow, and a demure "Yes" or "No" with the chill on. In
vain Amy telegraphed the word 'talk', tried to draw her out, and
administered covert pokes with her foot. Jo sat as if blandly
unconscious of it all, with deportment like Maud's face, 'icily
regular, splendidly null'.

"What a haughty, uninteresting creature that oldest Miss March
is!" was the unfortunately audible remark of one of the ladies, as
the door closed upon their guests. Jo laughed noiselessly all
through the hall, but Amy looked disgusted at the failure of her
instructions, and very naturally laid the blame upon Jo.

"How could you mistake me so? I merely meant you to be properly
dignified and composed, and you made yourself a perfect stock and
stone. Try to be sociable at the Lambs'. Gossip as other girls do,
and be interested in dress and flirtations and whatever nonsense
comes up. They move in the best society, are valuable persons for
us to know, and I wouldn't fail to make a good impression there for
anything."

"I'll be agreeable. I'll gossip and giggle, and have horrors and
raptures over any trifle you like. I rather enjoy this, and now
I'll imitate what is called 'a charming girl'. I can do it, for I
have May Chester as a model, and I'll improve upon her. See if the
Lambs don't say, 'What a lively, nice creature that Jo March
is!"

Amy felt anxious, as well she might, for when Jo turned freakish
there was no knowing where she would stop. Amy's face was a study
when she saw her sister skim into the next drawing room, kiss all
the young ladies with effusion, beam graciously upon the young
gentlemen, and join in the chat with a spirit which amazed the
beholder. Amy was taken possession of by Mrs. Lamb, with whom she
was a favorite, and forced to hear a long account of Lucretia's
last attack, while three delightful young gentlemen hovered near,
waiting for a pause when they might rush in and rescue her. So
situated, she was powerless to check Jo, who seemed possessed by a
spirit of mischief, and talked away as volubly as the lady. A knot
of heads gathered about her, and Amy strained her ears to hear what
was going on, for broken sentences filled her with curiosity, and
frequent peals of laughter made her wild to share the fun. One may
imagine her suffering on overhearing fragments of this sort of
conversation.

"She rides splendidly. Who taught her?"

"No one. She used to practice mounting, holding the reins, and
sitting straight on an old saddle in a tree. Now she rides
anything, for she doesn't know what fear is, and the stableman lets
her have horses cheap because she trains them to carry ladies so
well. She has such a passion for it, I often tell her if everything
else fails, she can be a horsebreaker, and get her living so."
