
At this awful speech Amy contained herself with difficulty, for
the impression was being given that she was rather a fast young
lady, which was her especial aversion. But what could she do? For
the old lady was in the middle of her story, and long before it was
done, Jo was off again, making more droll revelations and
committing still more fearful blunders.

"Yes, Amy was in despair that day, for all the good beasts were
gone, and of three left, one was lame, one blind, and the other so
balky that you had to put dirt in his mouth before he would start.
Nice animal for a pleasure party, wasn't it?"

"Which did she choose?" asked one of the laughing gentlemen, who
enjoyed the subject.

"None of them. She heard of a young horse at the farm house over
the river, and though a lady had never ridden him, she resolved to
try, because he was handsome and spirited. Her struggles were
really pathetic. There was no one to bring the horse to the saddle,
so she took the saddle to the horse. My dear creature, she actually
rowed it over the river, put it on her head, and marched up to the
barn to the utter amazement of the old man!"

"Did she ride the horse?"

"Of course she did, and had a capital time. I expected to see
her brought home in fragments, but she managed him perfectly, and
was the life of the party."

"Well, I call that plucky!" and young Mr. Lamb turned an
approving glance upon Amy, wondering what his mother could be
saying to make the girl look so red and uncomfortable.

She was still redder and more uncomfortable a moment after, when
a sudden turn in the conversation introduced the subject of dress.
One of the young ladies asked Jo where she got the pretty drab hat
she wore to the picnic and stupid Jo, instead of mentioning the
place where it was bought two years ago, must needs answer with
unnecessary frankness, "Oh, Amy painted it. You can't buy those
soft shades, so we paint ours any color we like. It's a great
comfort to have an artistic sister."

"Isn't that an original idea?" cried Miss Lamb, who found Jo
great fun.

"That's nothing compared to some of her brilliant performances.
There's nothing the child can't do. Why, she wanted a pair of blue
boots for Sallie's party, so she just painted her soiled white ones
the loveliest shade of sky blue you ever saw, and they looked
exactly like satin," added Jo, with an air of pride in her sister's
accomplishments that exasperated Amy till she felt that it would be
a relief to throw her cardcase at her.

