Down they went, feeling a trifle timid, for they seldom went to
parties, and informal as this little gathering was, it was an event
to them. Mrs. Gardiner, a stately old lady, greeted them kindly and
handed them over to the eldest of her six daughters. Meg knew
Sallie and was at her ease very soon, but Jo, who didn't care much
for girls or girlish gossip, stood about, with her back carefully
against the wall, and felt as much out of place as a colt in a
flower garden. Half a dozen jovial lads were talking about skates
in another part of the room, and she longed to go and join them,
for skating was one of the joys of her life. She telegraphed her
wish to Meg, but the eyebrows went up so alarmingly that she dared
not stir. No one came to talk to her, and one by one the group
dwindled away till she was left alone. She could not roam about and
amuse herself, for the burned breadth would show, so she stared at
people rather forlornly till the dancing began. Meg was asked at
once, and the tight slippers tripped about so briskly that none
would have guessed the pain their wearer suffered smilingly. Jo saw
a big red headed youth approaching her corner, and fearing he meant
to engage her, she slipped into a curtained recess, intending to
peep and enjoy herself in peace. Unfortunately, another bashful
person had chosen the same refuge, for, as the curtain fell behind
her, she found herself face to face with the 'Laurence boy'.

"Dear me, I didn't know anyone was here!" stammered Jo,
preparing to back out as speedily as she had bounced in.

But the boy laughed and said pleasantly, though he looked a
little startled, "Don't mind me, stay if you like."

"Shan't I disturb you?"

"Not a bit. I only came here because I don't know many people
and felt rather strange at first, you know."

"So did I. Don't go away, please, unless you'd rather."

The boy sat down again and looked at his pumps, till Jo said,
trying to be polite and easy, "I think I've had the pleasure of
seeing you before. You live near us, don't you?"

"Next door." And he looked up and laughed outright, for Jo's
prim manner was rather funny when he remembered how they had
chatted about cricket when he brought the cat home.

That put Jo at her ease and she laughed too, as she said, in her
heartiest way, "We did have such a good time over your nice
Christmas present."

"Grandpa sent it."

"But you put it into his head, didn't you, now?"
