"We read a story of yours the other day, and enjoyed it very
much," observed the elder Miss Lamb, wishing to compliment the
literary lady, who did not look the character just then, it must be
confessed.

Any mention of her 'works' always had a bad effect upon Jo, who
either grew rigid and looked offended, or changed the subject with
a brusque remark, as now. "Sorry you could find nothing better to
read. I write that rubbish because it sells, and ordinary people
like it. Are you going to New York this winter?"

As Miss Lamb had 'enjoyed' the story, this speech was not
exactly grateful or complimentary. The minute it was made Jo saw
her mistake, but fearing to make the matter worse, suddenly
remembered that it was for her to make the first move toward
departure, and did so with an abruptness that left three people
with half-finished sentences in their mouths.

"Amy, we must go. Good-by, dear, do come and see us. We are
pining for a visit. I don't dare to ask you, Mr. Lamb, but if you
should come, I don't think I shall have the heart to send you
away."

Jo said this with such a droll imitation of May Chester's
gushing style that Amy got out of the room as rapidly as possible,
feeling a strong desire to laugh and cry at the same time.

"Didn't I do well?" asked Jo, with a satisfied air as they
walked away.

"Nothing could have been worse," was Amy's crushing reply. "What
possessed you to tell those stories about my saddle, and the hats
and boots, and all the rest of it?"

"Why, it's funny, and amuses people. They know we are poor, so
it's no use pretending that we have grooms, buy three or four hats
a season, and have things as easy and fine as they do."

"You needn't go and tell them all our little shifts, and expose
our poverty in that perfectly unnecessary way. You haven't a bit of
proper pride, and never will learn when to hold your tongue and
when to speak," said Amy despairingly.

Poor Jo looked abashed, and silently chafed the end of her nose
with the stiff handkerchief, as if performing a penance for her
misdemeanors.

"How shall I behave here?" she asked, as they approached the
third mansion.
