
"Especially to gentlemen," added May, with a look which
enlightened Amy as to one cause of her sudden fall from favor. She
colored angrily, but took no other notice of that girlish sarcasm,
and answered with unexpected amiability…

"It shall be as you please, Mrs. Chester. I'll give up my place
here at once, and attend to the flowers, if you like."

"You can put your own things on your own table, if you prefer,"
began May, feeling a little conscience-stricken, as she looked at
the pretty racks, the painted shells, and quaint illuminations Amy
had so carefully made and so gracefully arranged. She meant it
kindly, but Amy mistook her meaning, and said quickly…

"Oh, certainly, if they are in your way," and sweeping her
contributions into her apron, pell-mell, she walked off, feeling
that herself and her works of art had been insulted past
forgiveness.

"Now she's mad. Oh, dear, I wish I hadn't asked you to speak,
Mama," said May, looking disconsolately at the empty spaces on her
table.

"Girls' quarrels are soon over," returned her mother, feeling a
trifle ashamed of her own part in this one, as well she might.

The little girls hailed Amy and her treasures with delight,
which cordial reception somewhat soothed her perturbed spirit, and
she fell to work, determined to succeed florally, if she could not
artistically. But everything seemed against her. It was late, and
she was tired. Everyone was too busy with their own affairs to help
her, and the little girls were only hindrances, for the dears
fussed and chattered like so many magpies, making a great deal of
confusion in their artless efforts to preserve the most perfect
order. The evergreen arch wouldn't stay firm after she got it up,
but wiggled and threatened to tumble down on her head when the
hanging baskets were filled. Her best tile got a splash of water,
which left a sepia tear on the Cupid's cheek. She bruised her hands
with hammering, and got cold working in a draft, which last
affliction filled her with apprehensions for the morrow. Any girl
reader who has suffered like afflictions will sympathize with poor
Amy and wish her well through her task.

There was great indignation at home when she told her story that
evening. Her mother said it was a shame, but told her she had done
right. Beth declared she wouldn't go to the fair at all, and Jo
demanded why she didn't take all her pretty things and leave those
mean people to get on without her.

"Because they are mean is no reason why I should be. I hate such
things, and though I think I've a right to be hurt, I don't intend
to show it. They will feel that more than angry speeches or huffy
actions, won't they, Marmee?"

"That's the right spirit, my dear. A kiss for a blow is always
best, though it's not very easy to give it sometimes," said her
mother, with the air of one who had learned the difference between
preaching and practicing.

