In spite of various very natural temptations to resent and
retaliate, Amy adhered to her resolution all the next day, bent on
conquering her enemy by kindness. She began well, thanks to a
silent reminder that came to her unexpectedly, but most
opportunely. As she arranged her table that morning, while the
little girls were in the anteroom filling the baskets, she took up
her pet production, a little book, the antique cover of which her
father had found among his treasures, and in which on leaves of
vellum she had beautifully illuminated different texts. As she
turned the pages rich in dainty devices with very pardonable pride,
her eye fell upon one verse that made her stop and think. Framed in
a brilliant scrollwork of scarlet, blue and gold, with little
spirits of good will helping one another up and down among the
thorns and flowers, were the words, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor
as thyself."

"I ought, but I don't," thought Amy, as her eye went from the
bright page to May's discontented face behind the big vases, that
could not hide the vacancies her pretty work had once filled. Amy
stood a minute, turning the leaves in her hand, reading on each
some sweet rebuke for all heartburnings and uncharitableness of
spirit. Many wise and true sermons are preached us every day by
unconscious ministers in street, school, office, or home. Even a
fair table may become a pulpit, if it can offer the good and
helpful words which are never out of season. Amy's conscience
preached her a little sermon from that text, then and there, and
she did what many of us do not always do, took the sermon to heart,
and straightway put it in practice.

A group of girls were standing about May's table, admiring the
pretty things, and talking over the change of saleswomen. They
dropped their voices, but Amy knew they were speaking of her,
hearing one side of the story and judging accordingly. It was not
pleasant, but a better spirit had come over her, and presently a
chance offered for proving it. She heard May say sorrowfully…

"It's too bad, for there is no time to make other things, and I
don't want to fill up with odds and ends. The table was just
complete then. Now it's spoiled."

"I dare say she'd put them back if you asked her," suggested
someone.

"How could I after all the fuss?" began May, but she did not
finish, for Amy's voice came across the hall, saying
pleasantly…

"You may have them, and welcome, without asking, if you want
them. I was just thinking I'd offer to put them back, for they
belong to your table rather than mine. Here they are, please take
them, and forgive me if I was hasty in carrying them away last
night."

As she spoke, Amy returned her contribution, with a nod and a
smile, and hurried away again, feeling that it was easier to do a
friendly thing than it was to stay and be thanked for it.

"Now, I call that lovely of her, don't you?" cried one girl.

May's answer was inaudible, but another young lady, whose temper
was evidently a little soured by making lemonade, added, with a
disagreeable laugh, "Very lovely, for she knew she wouldn't sell
them at her own table."

Now, that was hard. When we make little sacrifices we like to
have them appreciated, at least, and for a minute Amy was sorry she
had done it, feeling that virtue was not always its own reward. But
it is, as she presently discovered, for her spirits began to rise,
and her table to blossom under her skillful hands, the girls were
very kind, and that one little act seemed to have cleared the
atmosphere amazingly.
