"Didn't Hayes give you the best out of our gardens? I told him
to."

"I didn't know that, he forgot, I suppose, and, as your grandpa
was poorly, I didn't like to worry him by asking, though I did want
some."

"Now, Jo, how could you think there was any need of asking? They
are just as much yours as mine. Don't we always go halves in
everything?" began Laurie, in the tone that always made Jo turn
thorny.

"Gracious, I hope not! Half of some of your things wouldn't suit
me at all. But we mustn't stand philandering here. I've got to help
Amy, so you go and make yourself splendid, and if you'll be so very
kind as to let Hayes take a few nice flowers up to the Hall, I'll
bless you forever."

"Couldn't you do it now?" asked Laurie, so suggestively that Jo
shut the gate in his face with inhospitable haste, and called
through the bars, "Go away, Teddy, I'm busy."

Thanks to the conspirators, the tables were turned that night,
for Hayes sent up a wilderness of flowers, with a loverly basket
arranged in his best manner for a centerpiece. Then the March
family turned out en masse, and Jo exerted herself to some purpose,
for people not only came, but stayed, laughing at her nonsense,
admiring Amy's taste, and apparently enjoying themselves very much.
Laurie and his friends gallantly threw themselves into the breach,
bought up the bouquets, encamped before the table, and made that
corner the liveliest spot in the room. Amy was in her element now,
and out of gratitude, if nothing more, was as spritely and gracious
as possible, coming to the conclusion, about that time, that virtue
was its own reward, after all.

Jo behaved herself with exemplary propriety, and when Amy was
happily surrounded by her guard of honor, Jo circulated about the
Hall, picking up various bits of gossip, which enlightened her upon
the subject of the Chester change of base. She reproached herself
for her share of the ill feeling and resolved to exonerate Amy as
soon as possible. She also discovered what Amy had done about the
things in the morning, and considered her a model of magnanimity.
As she passed the art table, she glanced over it for her sister's
things, but saw no sign of them. "Tucked away out of sight, I dare
say," thought Jo, who could forgive her own wrongs, but hotly
resented any insult offered her family.

"Good evening, Miss Jo. How does Amy get on?" asked May with a
conciliatory air, for she wanted to show that she also could be
generous.

"She has sold everything she had that was worth selling, and now
she is enjoying herself. The flower table is always attractive, you
know, 'especially to gentlemen'." Jo couldn't resist giving that
little slap, but May took it so meekly she regretted it a minute
after, and fell to praising the great vases, which still remained
unsold.

"Is Amy's illumination anywhere about? I took a fancy to buy
that for Father," said Jo, very anxious to learn the fate of her
sister's work.

"Everything of Amy's sold long ago. I took care that the right
people saw them, and they made a nice little sum of money for us,"
returned May, who had overcome sundry small temptations, as well as
Amy had, that day.
