"Oh, have you e'er heard of Kate Kearney?
She lives on the banks of Killarney;
From the glance of her eye,
Shun danger and fly,
For fatal's the glance of Kate Kearney."

Wasn't that nonsensical?

We only stopped at Liverpool a few hours. It's a
dirty, noisy place, and I was glad to leave it. Uncle rushed out
and bought a pair of dogskin gloves, some ugly, thick shoes, and an
umbrella, and got shaved&#160;
à la
&#160;mutton chop, the
first thing. Then he flattered himself that he looked like a true
Briton, but the first time he had the mud cleaned off his shoes,
the little bootblack knew that an American stood in them, and said,
with a grin, "There yer har, sir. I've given 'em the latest Yankee
shine." It amused Uncle immensely. Oh, I must tell you what that
absurd Lennox did! He got his friend Ward, who came on with us, to
order a bouquet for me, and the first thing I saw in my room was a
lovely one, with "Robert Lennox's compliments," on the card. Wasn't
that fun, girls? I like traveling.

I never shall get to London if I don't hurry. The
trip was like riding through a long picture gallery, full of lovely
landscapes. The farmhouses were my delight, with thatched roofs,
ivy up to the eaves, latticed windows, and stout women with rosy
children at the doors. The very cattle looked more tranquil than
ours, as they stood knee-deep in clover, and the hens had a
contented cluck, as if they never got nervous like Yankee biddies.
Such perfect color I never saw, the grass so green, sky so blue,
grain so yellow, woods so dark, I was in a rapture all the way. So
was Flo, and we kept bouncing from one side to the other, trying to
see everything while we were whisking along at the rate of sixty
miles an hour. Aunt was tired and went to sleep, but Uncle read his
guidebook, and wouldn't be astonished at anything. This is the way
we went on. Amy, flying up—"Oh, that must be Kenilworth, that gray
place among the trees!" Flo, darting to my window—"How sweet! We
must go there sometime, won't we Papa?" Uncle, calmly admiring his
boots—"No, my dear, not unless you want beer, that's a
brewery."

A pause—then Flo cried out, "Bless me, there's a
gallows and a man going up." "Where, where?" shrieks Amy, staring
out at two tall posts with a crossbeam and some dangling chains. "A
colliery," remarks Uncle, with a twinkle of the eye. "Here's a
lovely flock of lambs all lying down," says Amy. "See, Papa, aren't
they pretty?" added Flo sentimentally. "Geese, young ladies,"
returns Uncle, in a tone that keeps us quiet till Flo settles down
to enjoy the&#160;
Flirtations of Captain Cavendish
, and I
have the scenery all to myself.

Of course it rained when we got to London, and
there was nothing to be seen but fog and umbrellas. We rested,
unpacked, and shopped a little between the showers. Aunt Mary got
me some new things, for I came off in such a hurry I wasn't half
ready. A white hat and blue feather, a muslin dress to match, and
the loveliest mantle you ever saw. Shopping in Regent Street is
perfectly splendid. Things seem so cheap, nice ribbons only
sixpence a yard. I laid in a stock, but shall get my gloves in
Paris. Doesn't that sound sort of elegant and rich?

Flo and I, for the fun of it, ordered a hansom
cab, while Aunt and Uncle were out, and went for a drive, though we
learned afterward that it wasn't the thing for young ladies to ride
in them alone. It was so droll! For when we were shut in by the
wooden apron, the man drove so fast that Flo was frightened, and
told me to stop him, but he was up outside behind somewhere, and I
couldn't get at him. He didn't hear me call, nor see me flap my
parasol in front, and there we were, quite helpless, rattling away,
and whirling around corners at a breakneck pace. At last, in my
despair, I saw a little door in the roof, and on poking it open, a
red eye appeared, and a beery voice said…
