
"Let us say nothing about it to him till the plan is settled,
then I'll run away before he can collect his wits and be tragic.
Beth must think I'm going to please myself, as I am, for I can't
talk about Laurie to her. But she can pet and comfort him after I'm
gone, and so cure him of this romantic notion. He's been through so
many little trials of the sort, he's used to it, and will soon get
over his lovelornity."

Jo spoke hopefully, but could not rid herself of the foreboding
fear that this 'little trial' would be harder than the others, and
that Laurie would not get over his 'lovelornity' as easily as
heretofore.

The plan was talked over in a family council and agreed upon,
for Mrs. Kirke gladly accepted Jo, and promised to make a pleasant
home for her. The teaching would render her independent, and such
leisure as she got might be made profitable by writing, while the
new scenes and society would be both useful and agreeable. Jo liked
the prospect and was eager to be gone, for the home nest was
growing too narrow for her restless nature and adventurous spirit.
When all was settled, with fear and trembling she told Laurie, but
to her surprise he took it very quietly. He had been graver than
usual of late, but very pleasant, and when jokingly accused of
turning over a new leaf, he answered soberly, "So I am, and I mean
this one shall stay turned."

Jo was very much relieved that one of his virtuous fits should
come on just then, and made her preparations with a lightened
heart, for Beth seemed more cheerful, and hoped she was doing the
best for all.

"One thing I leave in your especial care," she said, the night
before she left.

"You mean your papers?" asked Beth.

"No, my boy. Be very good to him, won't you?"

"Of course I will, but I can't fill your place, and he'll miss
you sadly."

"It won't hurt him, so remember, I leave him in your charge, to
plague, pet, and keep in order."

"I'll do my best, for your sake," promised Beth, wondering why
Jo looked at her so queerly.

