I felt angry at first, and then I didn't care,
for a governess is as good as a clerk, and I've got sense, if I
haven't style, which is more than some people have, judging from
the remarks of the elegant beings who clattered away, smoking like
bad chimneys. I hate ordinary people!

&#160;

Thursday

Yesterday was a quiet day spent in teaching,
sewing, and writing in my little room, which is very cozy, with a
light and fire. I picked up a few bits of news and was introduced
to the Professor. It seems that Tina is the child of the
Frenchwoman who does the fine ironing in the laundry here. The
little thing has lost her heart to Mr. Bhaer, and follows him about
the house like a dog whenever he is at home, which delights him, as
he is very fond of children, though a 'bacheldore'. Kitty and
Minnie Kirke likewise regard him with affection, and tell all sorts
of stories about the plays he invents, the presents he brings, and
the splendid tales he tells. The younger men quiz him, it seems,
call him Old Fritz, Lager Beer, Ursa Major, and make all manner of
jokes on his name. But he enjoys it like a boy, Mrs. Kirke says,
and takes it so good-naturedly that they all like him in spite of
his foreign ways.

The maiden lady is a Miss Norton, rich,
cultivated, and kind. She spoke to me at dinner today (for I went
to table again, it's such fun to watch people), and asked me to
come and see her at her room. She has fine books and pictures,
knows interesting persons, and seems friendly, so I shall make
myself agreeable, for I do want to get into good society, only it
isn't the same sort that Amy likes.

I was in our parlor last evening when Mr. Bhaer
came in with some newspapers for Mrs. Kirke. She wasn't there, but
Minnie, who is a little old woman, introduced me very prettily.
"This is Mamma's friend, Miss March."

"Yes, and she's jolly and we like her lots,"
added Kitty, who is an 'enfant terrible'.

We both bowed, and then we laughed, for the prim
introduction and the blunt addition were rather a comical
contrast.

"Ah, yes, I hear these naughty ones go to vex
you, Mees Marsch. If so again, call at me and I come," he said,
with a threatening frown that delighted the little wretches.

I promised I would, and he departed, but it seems
as if I was doomed to see a good deal of him, for today as I passed
his door on my way out, by accident I knocked against it with my
umbrella. It flew open, and there he stood in his dressing gown,
with a big blue sock on one hand and a darning needle in the other.
He didn't seem at all ashamed of it, for when I explained and
hurried on, he waved his hand, sock and all, saying in his loud,
cheerful way…

"You haf a fine day to make your walk. Bon
voyage, Mademoiselle."
