
"Not a first attempt, I take it?" observing that the pages were
numbered, covered only on one side, and not tied up with a
ribbon—sure sign of a novice.

"No, sir. She has had some experience, and got a prize for a
tale in the&#160;
Blarneystone Banner
."

"Oh, did she?" and Mr. Dashwood gave Jo a quick look, which
seemed to take note of everything she had on, from the bow in her
bonnet to the buttons on her boots. "Well, you can leave it, if you
like. We've more of this sort of thing on hand than we know what to
do with at present, but I'll run my eye over it, and give you an
answer next week."

Now, Jo did&#160;
not
&#160;like to leave it, for Mr.
Dashwood didn't suit her at all, but, under the circumstances,
there was nothing for her to do but bow and walk away, looking
particularly tall and dignified, as she was apt to do when nettled
or abashed. Just then she was both, for it was perfectly evident
from the knowing glances exchanged among the gentlemen that her
little fiction of 'my friend' was considered a good joke, and a
laugh, produced by some inaudible remark of the editor, as he
closed the door, completed her discomfiture. Half resolving never
to return, she went home, and worked off her irritation by
stitching pinafores vigorously, and in an hour or two was cool
enough to laugh over the scene and long for next week.

When she went again, Mr. Dashwood was alone, whereat she
rejoiced. Mr. Dashwood was much wider awake than before, which was
agreeable, and Mr. Dashwood was not too deeply absorbed in a cigar
to remember his manners, so the second interview was much more
comfortable than the first.

"We'll take this (editors never say I), if you don't object to a
few alterations. It's too long, but omitting the passages I've
marked will make it just the right length," he said, in a
businesslike tone.

Jo hardly knew her own MS. again, so crumpled and underscored
were its pages and paragraphs, but feeling as a tender parent might
on being asked to cut off her baby's legs in order that it might
fit into a new cradle, she looked at the marked passages and was
surprised to find that all the moral reflections—which she had
carefully put in as ballast for much romance—had been stricken
out.

"But, Sir, I thought every story should have some sort of a
moral, so I took care to have a few of my sinners repent."

