"That is your best friend, of whom you speak?" he said in an
altered tone.

"Yes, my boy Teddy. I'm very proud of him and should like you to
see him."

Jo looked up then, quite unconscious of anything but her own
pleasure in the prospect of showing them to one another. Something
in Mr. Bhaer's face suddenly recalled the fact that she might find
Laurie more than a 'best friend', and simply because she
particularly wished not to look as if anything was the matter, she
involuntarily began to blush, and the more she tried not to, the
redder she grew. If it had not been for Tina on her knee. She
didn't know what would have become of her. Fortunately the child
was moved to hug her, so she managed to hide her face an instant,
hoping the Professor did not see it. But he did, and his own
changed again from that momentary anxiety to its usual expression,
as he said cordially…

"I fear I shall not make the time for that, but I wish the
friend much success, and you all happiness. Gott bless you!" And
with that, he shook hands warmly, shouldered Tina, and went
away.

But after the boys were abed, he sat long before his fire with
the tired look on his face and the 'heimweh', or homesickness,
lying heavy at his heart. Once, when he remembered Jo as she sat
with the little child in her lap and that new softness in her face,
he leaned his head on his hands a minute, and then roamed about the
room, as if in search of something that he could not find.

"It is not for me, I must not hope it now," he said to himself,
with a sigh that was almost a groan. Then, as if reproaching
himself for the longing that he could not repress, he went and
kissed the two tousled heads upon the pillow, took down his
seldom-used meerschaum, and opened his Plato.

He did his best and did it manfully, but I don't think he found
that a pair of rampant boys, a pipe, or even the divine Plato, were
very satisfactory substitutes for wife and child at home.

Early as it was, he was at the station next morning to see Jo
off, and thanks to him, she began her solitary journey with the
pleasant memory of a familiar face smiling its farewell, a bunch of
violets to keep her company, and best of all, the happy thought,
"Well, the winter's gone, and I've written no books, earned no
fortune, but I've made a friend worth having and I'll try to keep
him all my life."




