
"Is this what made you so unhappy in the autumn, Beth? You did
not feel it then, and keep it to yourself so long, did you?" asked
Jo, refusing to see or say that it was best, but glad to know that
Laurie had no part in Beth's trouble.

"Yes, I gave up hoping then, but I didn't like to own it. I
tried to think it was a sick fancy, and would not let it trouble
anyone. But when I saw you all so well and strong and full of happy
plans, it was hard to feel that I could never be like you, and then
I was miserable, Jo."

"Oh, Beth, and you didn't tell me, didn't let me comfort and
help you? How could you shut me out, bear it all alone?"

Jo's voice was full of tender reproach, and her heart ached to
think of the solitary struggle that must have gone on while Beth
learned to say goodbye to health, love, and life, and take up her
cross so cheerfully.

"Perhaps it was wrong, but I tried to do right. I wasn't sure,
no one said anything, and I hoped I was mistaken. It would have
been selfish to frighten you all when Marmee was so anxious about
Meg, and Amy away, and you so happy with Laurie—at least I thought
so then."

"And I thought you loved him, Beth, and I went away because I
couldn't," cried Jo, glad to say all the truth.

Beth looked so amazed at the idea that Jo smiled in spite of her
pain, and added softly, "Then you didn't, dearie? I was afraid it
was so, and imagined your poor little heart full of lovelornity all
that while."

"Why, Jo, how could I, when he was so fond of you?" asked Beth,
as innocently as a child. "I do love him dearly. He is so good to
me, how can I help It? But he could never be anything to me but my
brother. I hope he truly will be, sometime."

"Not through me," said Jo decidedly. "Amy is left for him, and
they would suit excellently, but I have no heart for such things,
now. I don't care what becomes of anybody but you, Beth. You must
get well."

"I want to, oh, so much! I try, but every day I lose a little,
and feel more sure that I shall never gain it back. It's like the
tide, Jo, when it turns, it goes slowly, but it can't be
stopped."

