"He won't stay there, he never does unless I sit by him."

"I'll manage him. Demi, go upstairs, and get into your bed, as
Mamma bids you."

"S'ant!" replied the young rebel, helping himself to the coveted
'cakie', and beginning to eat the same with calm audacity.

"You must never say that to Papa. I shall carry you if you don't
go yourself."

"Go 'way, me don't love Parpar." and Demi retired to his
mother's skirts for protection.

But even that refuge proved unavailing, for he was delivered
over to the enemy, with a "Be gentle with him, John," which struck
the culprit with dismay, for when Mamma deserted him, then the
judgment day was at hand. Bereft of his cake, defrauded of his
frolic, and borne away by a strong hand to that detested bed, poor
Demi could not restrain his wrath, but openly defied Papa, and
kicked and screamed lustily all the way upstairs. The minute he was
put into bed on one side, he rolled out on the other, and made for
the door, only to be ignominiously caught up by the tail of his
little toga and put back again, which lively performance was kept
up till the young man's strength gave out, when he devoted himself
to roaring at the top of his voice. This vocal exercise usually
conquered Meg, but John sat as unmoved as the post which is
popularly believed to be deaf. No coaxing, no sugar, no lullaby, no
story, even the light was put out and only the red glow of the fire
enlivened the 'big dark' which Demi regarded with curiosity rather
than fear. This new order of things disgusted him, and he howled
dismally for 'Marmar', as his angry passions subsided, and
recollections of his tender bondwoman returned to the captive
autocrat. The plaintive wail which succeeded the passionate roar
went to Meg's heart, and she ran up to say beseechingly…

"Let me stay with him, he'll be good now, John."

"No, my dear. I've told him he must go to sleep, as you bid him,
and he must, if I stay here all night."

"But he'll cry himself sick," pleaded Meg, reproaching herself
for deserting her boy.

"No, he won't, he's so tired he will soon drop off and then the
matter is settled, for he will understand that he has got to mind.
Don't interfere, I'll manage him."

"He's my child, and I can't have his spirit broken by
harshness."
