
"He's my child, and I won't have his temper spoiled by
indulgence. Go down, my dear, and leave the boy to me."

When John spoke in that masterful tone, Meg always obeyed, and
never regretted her docility.

"Please let me kiss him once, John?"

"Certainly. Demi, say good night to Mamma, and let her go and
rest, for she is very tired with taking care of you all day."

Meg always insisted upon it that the kiss won the victory, for
after it was given, Demi sobbed more quietly, and lay quite still
at the bottom of the bed, whither he had wriggled in his anguish of
mind.

"Poor little man, he's worn out with sleep and crying. I'll
cover him up, and then go and set Meg's heart at rest," thought
John, creeping to the bedside, hoping to find his rebellious heir
asleep.

But he wasn't, for the moment his father peeped at him, Demi's
eyes opened, his little chin began to quiver, and he put up his
arms, saying with a penitent hiccough, "Me's dood, now."

Sitting on the stairs outside Meg wondered at the long silence
which followed the uproar, and after imagining all sorts of
impossible accidents, she slipped into the room to set her fears at
rest. Demi lay fast asleep, not in his usual spreadeagle attitude,
but in a subdued bunch, cuddled close in the circle of his father's
arm and holding his father's finger, as if he felt that justice was
tempered with mercy, and had gone to sleep a sadder and wiser baby.
So held, John had waited with a womanly patience till the little
hand relaxed its hold, and while waiting had fallen asleep, more
tired by that tussle with his son than with his whole day's
work.

As Meg stood watching the two faces on the pillow, she smiled to
herself, and then slipped away again, saying in a satisfied tone,
"I never need fear that John will be too harsh with my babies. He
does know how to manage them, and will be a great help, for Demi is
getting too much for me."

When John came down at last, expecting to find a pensive or
reproachful wife, he was agreeably surprised to find Meg placidly
trimming a bonnet, and to be greeted with the request to read
something about the election, if he was not too tired. John saw in
a minute that a revolution of some kind was going on, but wisely
asked no questions, knowing that Meg was such a transparent little
person, she couldn't keep a secret to save her life, and therefore
the clue would soon appear. He read a long debate with the most
amiable readiness and then explained it in his most lucid manner,
while Meg tried to look deeply interested, to ask intelligent
questions, and keep her thoughts from wandering from the state of
the nation to the state of her bonnet. In her secret soul, however,
she decided that politics were as bad as mathematics, and that the
mission of politicians seemed to be calling each other names, but
she kept these feminine ideas to herself, and when John paused,
shook her head and said with what she thought diplomatic ambiguity,
"Well, I really don't see what we are coming to."

