
The two never quarreled. Amy was too well-bred, and just now
Laurie was too lazy, so in a minute he peeped under her hatbrim
with an inquiring air. She answered him with a smile, and they went
on together in the most amicable manner.

It was a lovely drive, along winding roads rich in the
picturesque scenes that delight beauty-loving eyes. Here an ancient
monastery, whence the solemn chanting of the monks came down to
them. There a bare-legged shepherd, in wooden shoes, pointed hat,
and rough jacket over one shoulder, sat piping on a stone while his
goats skipped among the rocks or lay at his feet. Meek,
mouse-colored donkeys, laden with panniers of freshly cut grass
passed by, with a pretty girl in a capaline sitting between the
green piles, or an old woman spinning with a distaff as she went.
Brown, soft-eyed children ran out from the quaint stone hovels to
offer nosegays, or bunches of oranges still on the bough. Gnarled
olive trees covered the hills with their dusky foliage, fruit hung
golden in the orchard, and great scarlet anemones fringed the
roadside, while beyond green slopes and craggy heights, the
Maritime Alps rose sharp and white against the blue Italian
sky.

Valrosa well deserved its name, for in that climate of perpetual
summer roses blossomed everywhere. They overhung the archway,
thrust themselves between the bars of the great gate with a sweet
welcome to passers-by, and lined the avenue, winding through lemon
trees and feathery palms up to the villa on the hill. Every shadowy
nook, where seats invited one to stop and rest, was a mass of
bloom, every cool grotto had its marble nymph smiling from a veil
of flowers and every fountain reflected crimson, white, or pale
pink roses, leaning down to smile at their own beauty. Roses
covered the walls of the house, draped the cornices, climbed the
pillars, and ran riot over the balustrade of the wide terrace,
whence one looked down on the sunny Mediterranean, and the
white-walled city on its shore.

"This is a regular honeymoon paradise, isn't it? Did you ever
see such roses?" asked Amy, pausing on the terrace to enjoy the
view, and a luxurious whiff of perfume that came wandering by.

"No, nor felt such thorns," returned Laurie, with his thumb in
his mouth, after a vain attempt to capture a solitary scarlet
flower that grew just beyond his reach.

"Try lower down, and pick those that have no thorns," said Amy,
gathering three of the tiny cream-colored ones that starred the
wall behind her. She put them in his buttonhole as a peace
offering, and he stood a minute looking down at them with a curious
expression, for in the Italian part of his nature there was a touch
of superstition, and he was just then in that state of half-sweet,
half-bitter melancholy, when imaginative young men find
significance in trifles and food for romance everywhere. He had
thought of Jo in reaching after the thorny red rose, for vivid
flowers became her, and she had often worn ones like that from the
greenhouse at home. The pale roses Amy gave him were the sort that
the Italians lay in dead hands, never in bridal wreaths, and for a
moment he wondered if the omen was for Jo or for himself, but the
next instant his American common sense got the better of
sentimentality, and he laughed a heartier laugh than Amy had heard
since he came.

"It's good advice, you'd better take it and save your fingers,"
she said, thinking her speech amused him.

"Thank you, I will," he answered in jest, and a few months later
he did it in earnest.

"Laurie, when are you going to your grandfather?" she asked
presently, as she settled herself on a rustic seat.

"Very soon."

