
"I'd take it manfully, and be respected if I couldn't be loved,"
said Amy, with the decision of one who knew nothing about it.

Now, Laurie flattered himself that he had borne it remarkably
well, making no moan, asking no sympathy, and taking his trouble
away to live it down alone. Amy's lecture put the matter in a new
light, and for the first time it did look weak and selfish to lose
heart at the first failure, and shut himself up in moody
indifference. He felt as if suddenly shaken out of a pensive dream
and found it impossible to go to sleep again. Presently he sat up
and asked slowly, "Do you think Jo would despise me as you do?"

"Yes, if she saw you now. She hates lazy people. Why don't you
do something splendid, and make her love you?"

"I did my best, but it was no use."

"Graduating well, you mean? That was no more than you ought to
have done, for your grandfather's sake. It would have been shameful
to fail after spending so much time and money, when everyone knew
that you could do well."

"I did fail, say what you will, for Jo wouldn't love me," began
Laurie, leaning his head on his hand in a despondent attitude.

"No, you didn't, and you'll say so in the end, for it did you
good, and proved that you could do something if you tried. If you'd
only set about another task of some sort, you'd soon be your
hearty, happy self again, and forget your trouble."

"That's impossible."

"Try it and see. You needn't shrug your shoulders, and think,
'Much she knows about such things'. I don't pretend to be wise, but
I am observing, and I see a great deal more than you'd imagine. I'm
interested in other people's experiences and inconsistencies, and
though I can't explain, I remember and use them for my own benefit.
Love Jo all your days, if you choose, but don't let it spoil you,
for it's wicked to throw away so many good gifts because you can't
have the one you want. There, I won't lecture any more, for I know
you'll wake up and be a man in spite of that hardhearted girl."

Neither spoke for several minutes. Laurie sat turning the little
ring on his finger, and Amy put the last touches to the hasty
sketch she had been working at while she talked. Presently she put
it on his knee, merely saying, "How do you like that?"

