He looked and then he smiled, as he could not well help doing,
for it was capitally done, the long, lazy figure on the grass, with
listless face, half-shut eyes, and one hand holding a cigar, from
which came the little wreath of smoke that encircled the dreamer's
head.

"How well you draw!" he said, with a genuine surprise and
pleasure at her skill, adding, with a half-laugh, "Yes, that's
me."

"As you are. This is as you were." and Amy laid another sketch
beside the one he held.

It was not nearly so well done, but there was a life and spirit
in it which atoned for many faults, and it recalled the past so
vividly that a sudden change swept over the young man's face as he
looked. Only a rough sketch of Laurie taming a horse. Hat and coat
were off, and every line of the active figure, resolute face, and
commanding attitude was full of energy and meaning. The handsome
brute, just subdued, stood arching his neck under the tightly drawn
rein, with one foot impatiently pawing the ground, and ears pricked
up as if listening for the voice that had mastered him. In the
ruffled mane, the rider's breezy hair and erect attitude, there was
a suggestion of suddenly arrested motion, of strength, courage, and
youthful buoyancy that contrasted sharply with the supine grace of
the '
Dolce far Niente
' sketch. Laurie said nothing but as
his eye went from one to the other, Amy saw him flush up and fold
his lips together as if he read and accepted the little lesson she
had given him. That satisfied her, and without waiting for him to
speak, she said, in her sprightly way…

"Don't you remember the day you played Rarey with Puck, and we
all looked on? Meg and Beth were frightened, but Jo clapped and
pranced, and I sat on the fence and drew you. I found that sketch
in my portfolio the other day, touched it up, and kept it to show
you."

"Much obliged. You've improved immensely since then, and I
congratulate you. May I venture to suggest in 'a honeymoon
paradise' that five o'clock is the dinner hour at your hotel?"

Laurie rose as he spoke, returned the pictures with a smile and
a bow and looked at his watch, as if to remind her that even moral
lectures should have an end. He tried to resume his former easy,
indifferent air, but it was an affectation now, for the rousing had
been more effacious than he would confess. Amy felt the shade of
coldness in his manner, and said to herself…

"Now, I've offended him. Well, if it does him good, I'm glad, if
it makes him hate me, I'm sorry, but it's true, and I can't take
back a word of it."

They laughed and chatted all the way home, and little Baptiste,
up behind, thought that monsieur and madamoiselle were in charming
spirits. But both felt ill at ease. The friendly frankness was
disturbed, the sunshine had a shadow over it, and despite their
apparent gaiety, there was a secret discontent in the heart of
each.

"Shall we see you this evening, mon frere?" asked Amy, as they
parted at her aunt's door.
