
"Then I don't feel as if I'd wasted my life. I'm not so good as
you make me, but I have tried to do right. And now, when it's too
late to begin even to do better, it's such a comfort to know that
someone loves me so much, and feels as if I'd helped them."

"More than any one in the world, Beth. I used to think I
couldn't let you go, but I'm learning to feel that I don't lose
you, that you'll be more to me than ever, and death can't part us,
though it seems to."

"I know it cannot, and I don't fear it any longer, for I'm sure
I shall be your Beth still, to love and help you more than ever.
You must take my place, Jo, and be everything to Father and Mother
when I'm gone. They will turn to you, don't fail them, and if it's
hard to work alone, remember that I don't forget you, and that
you'll be happier in doing that than writing splendid books or
seeing all the world, for love is the only thing that we can carry
with us when we go, and it makes the end so easy."

"I'll try, Beth." and then and there Jo renounced her old
ambition, pledged herself to a new and better one, acknowledging
the poverty of other desires, and feeling the blessed solace of a
belief in the immortality of love.

So the spring days came and went, the sky grew clearer, the
earth greener, the flowers were up fairly early, and the birds came
back in time to say goodbye to Beth, who, like a tired but trustful
child, clung to the hands that had led her all her life, as Father
and Mother guided her tenderly through the Valley of the Shadow,
and gave her up to God.

Seldom except in books do the dying utter memorable words, see
visions, or depart with beatified countenances, and those who have
sped many parting souls know that to most the end comes as
naturally and simply as sleep. As Beth had hoped, the 'tide went
out easily', and in the dark hour before dawn, on the bosom where
she had drawn her first breath, she quietly drew her last, with no
farewell but one loving look, one little sigh.

With tears and prayers and tender hands, Mother and sisters made
her ready for the long sleep that pain would never mar again,
seeing with grateful eyes the beautiful serenity that soon replaced
the pathetic patience that had wrung their hearts so long, and
feeling with reverent joy that to their darling death was a
benignant angel, not a phantom full of dread.

When morning came, for the first time in many months the fire
was out, Jo's place was empty, and the room was very still. But a
bird sang blithely on a budding bough, close by, the snowdrops
blossomed freshly at the window, and the spring sunshine streamed
in like a benediction over the placid face upon the pillow, a face
so full of painless peace that those who loved it best smiled
through their tears, and thanked God that Beth was well at
last.




