Fred Vaughn had returned, and put the question to which she had
once decided to answer, "Yes, thank you," but now she said, "No,
thank you," kindly but steadily, for when the time came, her
courage failed her, and she found that something more than money
and position was needed to satisfy the new longing that filled her
heart so full of tender hopes and fears. The words, "Fred is a good
fellow, but not at all the man I fancied you would ever like," and
Laurie's face when he uttered them, kept returning to her as
pertinaciously as her own did when she said in look, if not in
words, "I shall marry for money." It troubled her to remember that
now, she wished she could take it back, it sounded so unwomanly.
She didn't want Laurie to think her a heartless, worldly creature.
She didn't care to be a queen of society now half so much as she
did to be a lovable woman. She was so glad he didn't hate her for
the dreadful things she said, but took them so beautifully and was
kinder than ever. His letters were such a comfort, for the home
letters were very irregular and not half so satisfactory as his
when they did come. It was not only a pleasure, but a duty to
answer them, for the poor fellow was forlorn, and needed petting,
since Jo persisted in being stonyhearted. She ought to have made an
effort and tried to love him. It couldn't be very hard, many people
would be proud and glad to have such a dear boy care for them. But
Jo never would act like other girls, so there was nothing to do but
be very kind and treat him like a brother.

If all brothers were treated as well as Laurie was at this
period, they would be a much happier race of beings than they are.
Amy never lectured now. She asked his opinion on all subjects, she
was interested in everything he did, made charming little presents
for him, and sent him two letters a week, full of lively gossip,
sisterly confidences, and captivating sketches of the lovely scenes
about her. As few brothers are complimented by having their letters
carried about in their sister's pockets, read and reread
diligently, cried over when short, kissed when long, and treasured
carefully, we will not hint that Amy did any of these fond and
foolish things. But she certainly did grow a little pale and
pensive that spring, lost much of her relish for society, and went
out sketching alone a good deal. She never had much to show when
she came home, but was studying nature, I dare say, while she sat
for hours, with her hands folded, on the terrace at Valrosa, or
absently sketched any fancy that occurred to her, a stalwart knight
carved on a tomb, a young man asleep in the grass, with his hat
over his eyes, or a curly haired girl in gorgeous array,
promenading down a ballroom on the arm of a tall gentleman, both
faces being left a blur according to the last fashion in art, which
was safe but not altogether satisfactory.

Her aunt thought that she regretted her answer to Fred, and
finding denials useless and explanations impossible, Amy left her
to think what she liked, taking care that Laurie should know that
Fred had gone to Egypt. That was all, but he understood it, and
looked relieved, as he said to himself, with a venerable air…

"I was sure she would think better of it. Poor old fellow! I've
been through it all, and I can sympathize."

With that he heaved a great sigh, and then, as if he had
discharged his duty to the past, put his feet up on the sofa and
enjoyed Amy's letter luxuriously.

While these changes were going on abroad, trouble had come at
home. But the letter telling that Beth was failing never reached
Amy, and when the next found her at Vevay, for the heat had driven
them from Nice in May, and they had travelled slowly to
Switzerland, by way of Genoa and the Italian lakes. She bore it
very well, and quietly submitted to the family decree that she
should not shorten her visit, for since it was too late to say
goodbye to Beth, she had better stay, and let absence soften her
sorrow. But her heart was very heavy, she longed to be at home, and
every day looked wistfully across the lake, waiting for Laurie to
come and comfort her.

He did come very soon, for the same mail brought letters to them
both, but he was in Germany, and it took some days to reach him.
The moment he read it, he packed his knapsack, bade adieu to his
fellow pedestrians, and was off to keep his promise, with a heart
full of joy and sorrow, hope and suspense.

He knew Vevay well, and as soon as the boat touched the little
quay, he hurried along the shore to La Tour, where the Carrols were
living en pension. The garcon was in despair that the whole family
had gone to take a promenade on the lake, but no, the blonde
mademoiselle might be in the chateau garden. If monsieur would give
himself the pain of sitting down, a flash of time should present
her. But monsieur could not wait even a 'flash of time', and in the
middle of the speech departed to find mademoiselle himself.

A pleasant old garden on the borders of the lovely lake, with
chestnuts rustling overhead, ivy climbing everywhere, and the black
shadow of the tower falling far across the sunny water. At one
corner of the wide, low wall was a seat, and here Amy often came to
read or work, or console herself with the beauty all about her. She
was sitting here that day, leaning her head on her hand, with a
homesick heart and heavy eyes, thinking of Beth and wondering why
Laurie did not come. She did not hear him cross the courtyard
beyond, nor see him pause in the archway that led from the
subterranean path into the garden. He stood a minute looking at her
with new eyes, seeing what no one had ever seen before, the tender
side of Amy's character. Everything about her mutely suggested love
and sorrow, the blotted letters in her lap, the black ribbon that
tied up her hair, the womanly pain and patience in her face, even
the little ebony cross at her throat seemed pathetic to Laurie, for
he had given it to her, and she wore it as her only ornament. If he
had any doubts about the reception she would give him, they were
set at rest the minute she looked up and saw him, for dropping
everything, she ran to him, exclaiming in a tone of unmistakable
love and longing…

"Oh, Laurie, Laurie, I knew you'd come to me!"

I think everything was said and settled then, for as they stood
together quite silent for a moment, with the dark head bent down
protectingly over the light one, Amy felt that no one could comfort
and sustain her so well as Laurie, and Laurie decided that Amy was
the only woman in the world who could fill Jo's place and make him
happy. He did not tell her so, but she was not disappointed, for
both felt the truth, were satisfied, and gladly left the rest to
silence.
