They always looked back before turning the corner, for their
mother was always at the window to nod and smile, and wave her hand
to them. Somehow it seemed as if they couldn't have got through the
day without that, for whatever their mood might be, the last
glimpse of that motherly face was sure to affect them like
sunshine.

"If Marmee shook her fist instead of kissing her hand to us, it
would serve us right, for more ungrateful wretches than we are were
never seen," cried Jo, taking a remorseful satisfaction in the
snowy walk and bitter wind.

"Don't use such dreadful expressions," replied Meg from the
depths of the veil in which she had shrouded herself like a nun
sick of the world.

"I like good strong words that mean something," replied Jo,
catching her hat as it took a leap off her head preparatory to
flying away altogether.

"Call yourself any names you like, but I am neither a rascal nor
a wretch and I don't choose to be called so."

"You're a blighted being, and decidedly cross today because you
can't sit in the lap of luxury all the time. Poor dear, just wait
till I make my fortune, and you shall revel in carriages and ice
cream and high-heeled slippers, and posies, and red-headed boys to
dance with."

"How ridiculous you are, Jo!" But Meg laughed at the nonsense
and felt better in spite of herself.

"Lucky for you I am, for if I put on crushed airs and tried to
be dismal, as you do, we should be in a nice state. Thank goodness,
I can always find something funny to keep me up. Don't croak any
more, but come home jolly, there's a dear."

Jo gave her sister an encouraging pat on the shoulder as they
parted for the day, each going a different way, each hugging her
little warm turnover, and each trying to be cheerful in spite of
wintry weather, hard work, and the unsatisfied desires of
pleasure-loving youth.

When Mr. March lost his property in trying to help an
unfortunate friend, the two oldest girls begged to be allowed to do
something toward their own support, at least. Believing that they
could not begin too early to cultivate energy, industry, and
independence, their parents consented, and both fell to work with
the hearty good will which in spite of all obstacles is sure to
succeed at last.

Margaret found a place as nursery governess and felt rich with
her small salary. As she said, she was 'fond of luxury', and her
chief trouble was poverty. She found it harder to bear than the
others because she could remember a time when home was beautiful,
life full of ease and pleasure, and want of any kind unknown. She
tried not to be envious or discontented, but it was very natural
that the young girl should long for pretty things, gay friends,
accomplishments, and a happy life. At the Kings' she daily saw all
she wanted, for the children's older sisters were just out, and Meg
caught frequent glimpses of dainty ball dresses and bouquets, heard
lively gossip about theaters, concerts, sleighing parties, and
merrymakings of all kinds, and saw money lavished on trifles which
would have been so precious to her. Poor Meg seldom complained, but
a sense of injustice made her feel bitter toward everyone
sometimes, for she had not yet learned to know how rich she was in
the blessings which alone can make life happy.
