


Chapter

20
Surprises


Jo was alone in the twilight, lying on the old sofa, looking at
the fire, and thinking. It was her favorite way of spending the
hour of dusk. No one disturbed her, and she used to lie there on
Beth's little red pillow, planning stories, dreaming dreams, or
thinking tender thoughts of the sister who never seemed far away.
Her face looked tired, grave, and rather sad, for tomorrow was her
birthday, and she was thinking how fast the years went by, how old
she was getting, and how little she seemed to have accomplished.
Almost twenty-five, and nothing to show for it. Jo was mistaken in
that. There was a good deal to show, and by-and-by she saw, and was
grateful for it.

"An old maid, that's what I'm to be. A literary spinster, with a
pen for a spouse, a family of stories for children, and twenty
years hence a morsel of fame, perhaps, when, like poor Johnson, I'm
old and can't enjoy it, solitary, and can't share it, independent,
and don't need it. Well, I needn't be a sour saint nor a selfish
sinner, and, I dare say, old maids are very comfortable when they
get used to it, but… " and there Jo sighed, as if the prospect was
not inviting.

It seldom is, at first, and thirty seems the end of all things
to five-and-twenty. But it's not as bad as it looks, and one can
get on quite happily if one has something in one's self to fall
back upon. At twenty-five, girls begin to talk about being old
maids, but secretly resolve that they never will be. At thirty they
say nothing about it, but quietly accept the fact, and if sensible,
console themselves by remembering that they have twenty more
useful, happy years, in which they may be learning to grow old
gracefully. Don't laugh at the spinsters, dear girls, for often
very tender, tragic romances are hidden away in the hearts that
beat so quietly under the sober gowns, and many silent sacrifices
of youth, health, ambition, love itself, make the faded faces
beautiful in God's sight. Even the sad, sour sisters should be
kindly dealt with, because they have missed the sweetest part of
life, if for no other reason. And looking at them with compassion,
not contempt, girls in their bloom should remember that they too
may miss the blossom time. That rosy cheeks don't last forever,
that silver threads will come in the bonnie brown hair, and that,
by-and-by, kindness and respect will be as sweet as love and
admiration now.

Gentlemen, which means boys, be courteous to the old maids, no
matter how poor and plain and prim, for the only chivalry worth
having is that which is the readiest to pay deference to the old,
protect the feeble, and serve womankind, regardless of rank, age,
or color. Just recollect the good aunts who have not only lectured
and fussed, but nursed and petted, too often without thanks, the
scrapes they have helped you out of, the tips they have given you
from their small store, the stitches the patient old fingers have
set for you, the steps the willing old feet have taken, and
gratefully pay the dear old ladies the little attentions that women
love to receive as long as they live. The bright-eyed girls are
quick to see such traits, and will like you all the better for
them, and if death, almost the only power that can part mother and
son, should rob you of yours, you will be sure to find a tender
welcome and maternal cherishing from some Aunt Priscilla, who has
kept the warmest corner of her lonely old heart for 'the best nevvy
in the world'.

Jo must have fallen asleep (as I dare say my reader has during
this little homily), for suddenly Laurie's ghost seemed to stand
before her, a substantial, lifelike ghost, leaning over her with
the very look he used to wear when he felt a good deal and didn't
like to show it. But, like Jenny in the ballad…

"She could not think it he,"

and lay staring up at him in startled silence, till he stooped
and kissed her. Then she knew him, and flew up, crying
joyfully…
