
"I'll believe it, with all my heart, but, Teddy, we never can be
boy and girl again. The happy old times can't come back, and we
mustn't expect it. We are man and woman now, with sober work to do,
for playtime is over, and we must give up frolicking. I'm sure you
feel this. I see the change in you, and you'll find it in me. I
shall miss my boy, but I shall love the man as much, and admire him
more, because he means to be what I hoped he would. We can't be
little playmates any longer, but we will be brother and sister, to
love and help one another all our lives, won't we, Laurie?"

He did not say a word, but took the hand she offered him, and
laid his face down on it for a minute, feeling that out of the
grave of a boyish passion, there had risen a beautiful, strong
friendship to bless them both. Presently Jo said cheerfully, for
she didn't want the coming home to be a sad one, "I can't make it
true that you children are really married and going to set up
housekeeping. Why, it seems only yesterday that I was buttoning
Amy's pinafore, and pulling your hair when you teased. Mercy me,
how time does fly!"

"As one of the children is older than yourself, you needn't talk
so like a grandma. I flatter myself I'm a 'gentleman growed' as
Peggotty said of David, and when you see Amy, you'll find her
rather a precocious infant," said Laurie, looking amused at her
maternal air.

"You may be a little older in years, but I'm ever so much older
in feeling, Teddy. Women always are, and this last year has been
such a hard one that I feel forty."

"Poor Jo! We left you to bear it alone, while we went
pleasuring. You are older. Here's a line, and there's another.
Unless you smile, your eyes look sad, and when I touched the
cushion, just now, I found a tear on it. You've had a great deal to
bear, and had to bear it all alone. What a selfish beast I've
been!" and Laurie pulled his own hair, with a remorseful look.

But Jo only turned over the traitorous pillow, and answered, in
a tone which she tried to make more cheerful, "No, I had Father and
Mother to help me, and the dear babies to comfort me, and the
thought that you and Amy were safe and happy, to make the troubles
here easier to bear. I am lonely, sometimes, but I dare say it's
good for me, and… "

"You never shall be again," broke in Laurie, putting his arm
about her, as if to fence out every human ill. "Amy and I can't get
on without you, so you must come and teach 'the children' to keep
house, and go halves in everything, just as we used to do, and let
us pet you, and all be blissfully happy and friendly together."

"If I shouldn't be in the way, it would be very pleasant. I
begin to feel quite young already, for somehow all my troubles
seemed to fly away when you came. You always were a comfort,
Teddy," and Jo leaned her head on his shoulder, just as she did
years ago, when Beth lay ill and Laurie told her to hold on to
him.

He looked down at her, wondering if she remembered the time, but
Jo was smiling to herself, as if in truth her troubles had all
vanished at his coming.

"You are the same Jo still, dropping tears about one minute, and
laughing the next. You look a little wicked now. What is it,
Grandma?"

