Mercy on us, how they did talk! first one, then the other, then
all burst out together—trying to tell the history of three years in
half an hour. It was fortunate that tea was at hand, to produce a
lull and provide refreshment—for they would have been hoarse and
faint if they had gone on much longer. Such a happy procession as
filed away into the little dining room! Mr. March proudly escorted
Mrs. Laurence. Mrs. March as proudly leaned on the arm of 'my son'.
The old gentleman took Jo, with a whispered, "You must be my girl
now," and a glance at the empty corner by the fire, that made Jo
whisper back, "I'll try to fill her place, sir."

The twins pranced behind, feeling that the millennium was at
hand, for everyone was so busy with the newcomers that they were
left to revel at their own sweet will, and you may be sure they
made the most of the opportunity. Didn't they steal sips of tea,
stuff gingerbread ad libitum, get a hot biscuit apiece, and as a
crowning trespass, didn't they each whisk a captivating little tart
into their tiny pockets, there to stick and crumble treacherously,
teaching them that both human nature and a pastry are frail?
Burdened with the guilty consciousness of the sequestered tarts,
and fearing that Dodo's sharp eyes would pierce the thin disguise
of cambric and merino which hid their booty, the little sinners
attached themselves to 'Dranpa', who hadn't his spectacles on. Amy,
who was handed about like refreshments, returned to the parlor on
Father Laurence's arm. The others paired off as before, and this
arrangement left Jo companionless. She did not mind it at the
minute, for she lingered to answer Hannah's eager inquiry.

"Will Miss Amy ride in her coop (coupe), and use all them lovely
silver dishes that's stored away over yander?"

"Shouldn't wonder if she drove six white horses, ate off gold
plate, and wore diamonds and point lace every day. Teddy thinks
nothing too good for her," returned Jo with infinite
satisfaction.

"No more there is! Will you have hash or fishballs for
breakfast?" asked Hannah, who wisely mingled poetry and prose.

"I don't care," and Jo shut the door, feeling that food was an
uncongenial topic just then. She stood a minute looking at the
party vanishing above, and as Demi's short plaid legs toiled up the
last stair, a sudden sense of loneliness came over her so strongly
that she looked about her with dim eyes, as if to find something to
lean upon, for even Teddy had deserted her. If she had known what
birthday gift was coming every minute nearer and nearer, she would
not have said to herself, "I'll weep a little weep when I go to
bed. It won't do to be dismal now." Then she drew her hand over her
eyes, for one of her boyish habits was never to know where her
handkerchief was, and had just managed to call up a smile when
there came a knock at the porch door.

She opened with hospitable haste, and started as if another
ghost had come to surprise her, for there stood a tall bearded
gentleman, beaming on her from the darkness like a midnight
sun.

"Oh, Mr. Bhaer, I am so glad to see you!" cried Jo, with a
clutch, as if she feared the night would swallow him up before she
could get him in.

"And I to see Miss Marsch, but no, you haf a party," and the
Professor paused as the sound of voices and the tap of dancing feet
came down to them.

"No, we haven't, only the family. My sister and friends have
just come home, and we are all very happy. Come in, and make one of
us."

Though a very social man, I think Mr. Bhaer would have gone
decorously away, and come again another day, but how could he, when
Jo shut the door behind him, and bereft him of his hat? Perhaps her
face had something to do with it, for she forgot to hide her joy at
seeing him, and showed it with a frankness that proved irresistible
to the solitary man, whose welcome far exceeded his boldest
hopes.
