
"If I shall not be Monsieur de Trop, I will so gladly see them
all. You haf been ill, my friend?"

He put the question abruptly, for, as Jo hung up his coat, the
light fell on her face, and he saw a change in it.

"Not ill, but tired and sorrowful. We have had trouble since I
saw you last."

"Ah, yes, I know. My heart was sore for you when I heard that,"
and he shook hands again, with such a sympathetic face that Jo felt
as if no comfort could equal the look of the kind eyes, the grasp
of the big, warm hand.

"Father, Mother, this is my friend, Professor Bhaer," she said,
with a face and tone of such irrepressible pride and pleasure that
she might as well have blown a trumpet and opened the door with a
flourish.

If the stranger had any doubts about his reception, they were
set at rest in a minute by the cordial welcome he received.
Everyone greeted him kindly, for Jo's sake at first, but very soon
they liked him for his own. They could not help it, for he carried
the talisman that opens all hearts, and these simple people warmed
to him at once, feeling even the more friendly because he was poor.
For poverty enriches those who live above it, and is a sure
passport to truly hospitable spirits. Mr. Bhaer sat looking about
him with the air of a traveler who knocks at a strange door, and
when it opens, finds himself at home. The children went to him like
bees to a honeypot, and establishing themselves on each knee,
proceeded to captivate him by rifling his pockets, pulling his
beard, and investigating his watch, with juvenile audacity. The
women telegraphed their approval to one another, and Mr. March,
feeling that he had got a kindred spirit, opened his choicest
stores for his guest's benefit, while silent John listened and
enjoyed the talk, but said not a word, and Mr. Laurence found it
impossible to go to sleep.

If Jo had not been otherwise engaged, Laurie's behavior would
have amused her, for a faint twinge, not of jealousy, but something
like suspicion, caused that gentleman to stand aloof at first, and
observe the newcomer with brotherly circumspection. But it did not
last long. He got interested in spite of himself, and before he
knew it, was drawn into the circle. For Mr. Bhaer talked well in
this genial atmosphere, and did himself justice. He seldom spoke to
Laurie, but he looked at him often, and a shadow would pass across
his face, as if regretting his own lost youth, as he watched the
young man in his prime. Then his eyes would turn to Jo so wistfully
that she would have surely answered the mute inquiry if she had
seen it. But Jo had her own eyes to take care of, and feeling that
they could not be trusted, she prudently kept them on the little
sock she was knitting, like a model maiden aunt.

A stealthy glance now and then refreshed her like sips of fresh
water after a dusty walk, for the sidelong peeps showed her several
propitious omens. Mr. Bhaer's face had lost the absent-minded
expression, and looked all alive with interest in the present
moment, actually young and handsome, she thought, forgetting to
compare him with Laurie, as she usually did strange men, to their
great detriment. Then he seemed quite inspired, though the burial
customs of the ancients, to which the conversation had strayed,
might not be considered an exhilarating topic. Jo quite glowed with
triumph when Teddy got quenched in an argument, and thought to
herself, as she watched her father's absorbed face, "How he would
enjoy having such a man as my Professor to talk with every day!"
Lastly, Mr. Bhaer was dressed in a new suit of black, which made
him look more like a gentleman than ever. His bushy hair had been
cut and smoothly brushed, but didn't stay in order long, for in
exciting moments, he rumpled it up in the droll way he used to do,
and Jo liked it rampantly erect better than flat, because she
thought it gave his fine forehead a Jove-like aspect. Poor Jo, how
she did glorify that plain man, as she sat knitting away so
quietly, yet letting nothing escape her, not even the fact that Mr.
Bhaer actually had gold sleeve-buttons in his immaculate
wristbands.

"Dear old fellow! He couldn't have got himself up with more care
if he'd been going a-wooing," said Jo to herself, and then a sudden
thought born of the words made her blush so dreadfully that she had
to drop her ball, and go down after it to hide her face.

The maneuver did not succeed as well as she expected, however,
for though just in the act of setting fire to a funeral pyre, the
Professor dropped his torch, metaphorically speaking, and made a
dive after the little blue ball. Of course they bumped their heads
smartly together, saw stars, and both came up flushed and laughing,
without the ball, to resume their seats, wishing they had not left
them.

