"I hope so, don't you, dear?"

"Well, my love, I consider him a trump, in the fullest sense of
that expressive word, but I do wish he was a little younger and a
good deal richer."

"Now, Laurie, don't be too fastidious and worldly-minded. If
they love one another it doesn't matter a particle how old they are
nor how poor. Women never should marry for money… " Amy caught
herself up short as the words escaped her, and looked at her
husband, who replied, with malicious gravity…

"Certainly not, though you do hear charming girls say that they
intend to do it sometimes. If my memory serves me, you once thought
it your duty to make a rich match. That accounts, perhaps, for your
marrying a good-for-nothing like me."

"Oh, my dearest boy, don't, don't say that! I forgot you were
rich when I said 'Yes'. I'd have married you if you hadn't a penny,
and I sometimes wish you were poor that I might show how much I
love you." And Amy, who was very dignified in public and very fond
in private, gave convincing proofs of the truth of her words.

"You don't really think I am such a mercenary creature as I
tried to be once, do you? It would break my heart if you didn't
believe that I'd gladly pull in the same boat with you, even if you
had to get your living by rowing on the lake."

"Am I an idiot and a brute? How could I think so, when you
refused a richer man for me, and won't let me give you half I want
to now, when I have the right? Girls do it every day, poor things,
and are taught to think it is their only salvation, but you had
better lessons, and though I trembled for you at one time, I was
not disappointed, for the daughter was true to the mother's
teaching. I told Mamma so yesterday, and she looked as glad and
grateful as if I'd given her a check for a million, to be spent in
charity. You are not listening to my moral remarks, Mrs. Laurence,"
and Laurie paused, for Amy's eyes had an absent look, though fixed
upon his face.

"Yes, I am, and admiring the mole in your chin at the same time.
I don't wish to make you vain, but I must confess that I'm prouder
of my handsome husband than of all his money. Don't laugh, but your
nose is such a comfort to me," and Amy softly caressed the well-cut
feature with artistic satisfaction.

Laurie had received many compliments in his life, but never one
that suited him better, as he plainly showed though he did laugh at
his wife's peculiar taste, while she said slowly, "May I ask you a
question, dear?"

"Of course, you may."

"Shall you care if Jo does marry Mr. Bhaer?"
