


Chapter

23
Under the Umbrella


While Laurie and Amy were taking conjugal strolls over velvet
carpets, as they set their house in order, and planned a blissful
future, Mr. Bhaer and Jo were enjoying promenades of a different
sort, along muddy roads and sodden fields.

"I always do take a walk toward evening, and I don't know why I
should give it up, just because I happen to meet the Professor on
his way out," said Jo to herself, after two or three encounters,
for though there were two paths to Meg's whichever one she took she
was sure to meet him, either going or returning. He was always
walking rapidly, and never seemed to see her until quite close,
when he would look as if his short-sighted eyes had failed to
recognize the approaching lady till that moment. Then, if she was
going to Meg's he always had something for the babies. If her face
was turned homeward, he had merely strolled down to see the river,
and was just returning, unless they were tired of his frequent
calls.

Under the circumstances, what could Jo do but greet him civilly,
and invite him in? If she was tired of his visits, she concealed
her weariness with perfect skill, and took care that there should
be coffee for supper, "as Friedrich—I mean Mr. Bhaer—doesn't like
tea."

By the second week, everyone knew perfectly well what was going
on, yet everyone tried to look as if they were stone-blind to the
changes in Jo's face. They never asked why she sang about her work,
did up her hair three times a day, and got so blooming with her
evening exercise. And no one seemed to have the slightest suspicion
that Professor Bhaer, while talking philosophy with the father, was
giving the daughter lessons in love.

Jo couldn't even lose her heart in a decorous manner, but
sternly tried to quench her feelings, and failing to do so, led a
somewhat agitated life. She was mortally afraid of being laughed at
for surrendering, after her many and vehement declarations of
independence. Laurie was her especial dread, but thanks to the new
manager, he behaved with praiseworthy propriety, never called Mr.
Bhaer 'a capital old fellow' in public, never alluded, in the
remotest manner, to Jo's improved appearance, or expressed the
least surprise at seeing the Professor's hat on the Marches' table
nearly every evening. But he exulted in private and longed for the
time to come when he could give Jo a piece of plate, with a bear
and a ragged staff on it as an appropriate coat of arms.

For a fortnight, the Professor came and went with lover-like
regularity. Then he stayed away for three whole days, and made no
sign, a proceeding which caused everybody to look sober, and Jo to
become pensive, at first, and then—alas for romance—very cross.

"Disgusted, I dare say, and gone home as suddenly as he came.
It's nothing to me, of course, but I should think he would have
come and bid us goodbye like a gentleman," she said to herself,
with a despairing look at the gate, as she put on her things for
the customary walk one dull afternoon.
