
"You'd better take the little umbrella, dear. It looks like
rain," said her mother, observing that she had on her new bonnet,
but not alluding to the fact.

"Yes, Marmee, do you want anything in town? I've got to run in
and get some paper," returned Jo, pulling out the bow under her
chin before the glass as an excuse for not looking at her
mother.

"Yes, I want some twilled silesia, a paper of number nine
needles, and two yards of narrow lavender ribbon. Have you got your
thick boots on, and something warm under your cloak?"

"I believe so," answered Jo absently.

"If you happen to meet Mr. Bhaer, bring him home to tea. I quite
long to see the dear man," added Mrs. March.

Jo heard that, but made no answer, except to kiss her mother,
and walk rapidly away, thinking with a glow of gratitude, in spite
of her heartache, "How good she is to me! What do girls do who
haven't any mothers to help them through their troubles?"

The dry-goods stores were not down among the counting-houses,
banks, and wholesale warerooms, where gentlemen most do congregate,
but Jo found herself in that part of the city before she did a
single errand, loitering along as if waiting for someone, examining
engineering instruments in one window and samples of wool in
another, with most unfeminine interest, tumbling over barrels,
being half-smothered by descending bales, and hustled
unceremoniously by busy men who looked as if they wondered 'how the
deuce she got there'. A drop of rain on her cheek recalled her
thoughts from baffled hopes to ruined ribbons. For the drops
continued to fall, and being a woman as well as a lover, she felt
that, though it was too late to save her heart, she might her
bonnet. Now she remembered the little umbrella, which she had
forgotten to take in her hurry to be off, but regret was
unavailing, and nothing could be done but borrow one or submit to a
drenching. She looked up at the lowering sky, down at the crimson
bow already flecked with black, forward along the muddy street,
then one long, lingering look behind, at a certain grimy warehouse,
with 'Hoffmann, Swartz, &amp; Co.' over the door, and said to
herself, with a sternly reproachful air…

"It serves me right! what business had I to put on all my best
things and come philandering down here, hoping to see the
Professor? Jo, I'm ashamed of you! No, you shall not go there to
borrow an umbrella, or find out where he is, from his friends. You
shall trudge away, and do your errands in the rain, and if you
catch your death and ruin your bonnet, it's no more than you
deserve. Now then!"

With that she rushed across the street so impetuously that she
narrowly escaped annihilation from a passing truck, and
precipitated herself into the arms of a stately old gentleman, who
said, "I beg pardon, ma'am," and looked mortally offended. Somewhat
daunted, Jo righted herself, spread her handkerchief over the
devoted ribbons, and putting temptation behind her, hurried on,
with increasing dampness about the ankles, and much clashing of
umbrellas overhead. The fact that a somewhat dilapidated blue one
remained stationary above the unprotected bonnet attracted her
attention, and looking up, she saw Mr. Bhaer looking down.

"I feel to know the strong-minded lady who goes so bravely under
many horse noses, and so fast through much mud. What do you down
here, my friend?"

