"Let it go, it has done its duty, and I will haf a fresh one
when I read all the brown book in which she keeps her little
secrets," said Mr. Bhaer with a smile as he watched the fragments
fly away on the wind. "Yes," he added earnestly, "I read that, and
I think to myself, She has a sorrow, she is lonely, she would find
comfort in true love. I haf a heart full, full for her. Shall I not
go and say, 'If this is not too poor a thing to gif for what I
shall hope to receive, take it in Gott's name?'"

"And so you came to find that it was not too poor, but the one
precious thing I needed," whispered Jo.

"I had no courage to think that at first, heavenly kind as was
your welcome to me. But soon I began to hope, and then I said, 'I
will haf her if I die for it,' and so I will!" cried Mr. Bhaer,
with a defiant nod, as if the walls of mist closing round them were
barriers which he was to surmount or valiantly knock down.

Jo thought that was splendid, and resolved to be worthy of her
knight, though he did not come prancing on a charger in gorgeous
array.

"What made you stay away so long?" she asked presently, finding
it so pleasant to ask confidential questions and get delightful
answers that she could not keep silent.

"It was not easy, but I could not find the heart to take you
from that so happy home until I could haf a prospect of one to gif
you, after much time, perhaps, and hard work. How could I ask you
to gif up so much for a poor old fellow, who has no fortune but a
little learning?"

"I'm glad you are poor. I couldn't bear a rich husband," said Jo
decidedly, adding in a softer tone, "Don't fear poverty. I've known
it long enough to lose my dread and be happy working for those I
love, and don't call yourself old—forty is the prime of life. I
couldn't help loving you if you were seventy!"

The Professor found that so touching that he would have been
glad of his handkerchief, if he could have got at it. As he
couldn't, Jo wiped his eyes for him, and said, laughing, as she
took away a bundle or two…

"I may be strong-minded, but no one can say I'm out of my sphere
now, for woman's special mission is supposed to be drying tears and
bearing burdens. I'm to carry my share, Friedrich, and help to earn
the home. Make up your mind to that, or I'll never go," she added
resolutely, as he tried to reclaim his load.

"We shall see. Haf you patience to wait a long time, Jo? I must
go away and do my work alone. I must help my boys first, because,
even for you, I may not break my word to Minna. Can you forgif
that, and be happy while we hope and wait?"

"Yes, I know I can, for we love one another, and that makes all
the rest easy to bear. I have my duty, also, and my work. I
couldn't enjoy myself if I neglected them even for you, so there's
no need of hurry or impatience. You can do your part out West, I
can do mine here, and both be happy hoping for the best, and
leaving the future to be as God wills."
