Mrs. March held out her hand to Jo, who took it, smiling, with
tears in her eyes, and went on in the old enthusiastic way, which
they had not seen for a long while.

"I told my plan to Fritz once, and he said it was just what he
would like, and agreed to try it when we got rich. Bless his dear
heart, he's been doing it all his life—helping poor boys, I mean,
not getting rich, that he'll never be. Money doesn't stay in his
pocket long enough to lay up any. But now, thanks to my good old
aunt, who loved me better than I ever deserved, I'm rich, at least
I feel so, and we can live at Plumfield perfectly well, if we have
a flourishing school. It's just the place for boys, the house is
big, and the furniture strong and plain. There's plenty of room for
dozens inside, and splendid grounds outside. They could help in the
garden and orchard. Such work is healthy, isn't it, sir? Then Fritz
could train and teach in his own way, and Father will help him. I
can feed and nurse and pet and scold them, and Mother will be my
stand-by. I've always longed for lots of boys, and never had
enough, now I can fill the house full and revel in the little dears
to my heart's content. Think what luxury— Plumfield my own, and a
wilderness of boys to enjoy it with me."

As Jo waved her hands and gave a sigh of rapture, the family
went off into a gale of merriment, and Mr. Laurence laughed till
they thought he'd have an apoplectic fit.

"I don't see anything funny," she said gravely, when she could
be heard. "Nothing could be more natural and proper than for my
Professor to open a school, and for me to prefer to reside in my
own estate."

"She is putting on airs already," said Laurie, who regarded the
idea in the light of a capital joke. "But may I inquire how you
intend to support the establishment? If all the pupils are little
ragamuffins, I'm afraid your crop won't be profitable in a worldly
sense, Mrs. Bhaer."

"Now don't be a wet-blanket, Teddy. Of course I shall have rich
pupils, also—perhaps begin with such altogether. Then, when I've
got a start, I can take in a ragamuffin or two, just for a relish.
Rich people's children often need care and comfort, as well as
poor. I've seen unfortunate little creatures left to servants, or
backward ones pushed forward, when it's real cruelty. Some are
naughty through mismanagment or neglect, and some lose their
mothers. Besides, the best have to get through the hobbledehoy age,
and that's the very time they need most patience and kindness.
People laugh at them, and hustle them about, try to keep them out
of sight, and expect them to turn all at once from pretty children
into fine young men. They don't complain much—plucky little
souls—but they feel it. I've been through something of it, and I
know all about it. I've a special interest in such young bears, and
like to show them that I see the warm, honest, well-meaning boys'
hearts, in spite of the clumsy arms and legs and the topsy-turvy
heads. I've had experience, too, for haven't I brought up one boy
to be a pride and honor to his family?"

"I'll testify that you tried to do it," said Laurie with a
grateful look.

"And I've succeeded beyond my hopes, for here you are, a steady,
sensible businessman, doing heaps of good with your money, and
laying up the blessings of the poor, instead of dollars. But you
are not merely a businessman, you love good and beautiful things,
enjoy them yourself, and let others go halves, as you always did in
the old times. I am proud of you, Teddy, for you get better every
year, and everyone feels it, though you won't let them say so. Yes,
and when I have my flock, I'll just point to you, and say 'There's
your model, my lads'."

Poor Laurie didn't know where to look, for, man though he was,
something of the old bashfulness came over him as this burst of
praise made all faces turn approvingly upon him.

"I say, Jo, that's rather too much," he began, just in his old
boyish way. "You have all done more for me than I can ever thank
you for, except by doing my best not to disappoint you. You have
rather cast me off lately, Jo, but I've had the best of help,
nevertheless. So, if I've got on at all, you may thank these two
for it," and he laid one hand gently on his grandfather's head, and
the other on Amy's golden one, for the three were never far
apart.

"I do think that families are the most beautiful things in all
the world!" burst out Jo, who was in an unusually up-lifted frame
of mind just then. "When I have one of my own, I hope it will be as
happy as the three I know and love the best. If John and my Fritz
were only here, it would be quite a little heaven on earth," she
added more quietly. And that night when she went to her room after
a blissful evening of family counsels, hopes, and plans, her heart
was so full of happiness that she could only calm it by kneeling
beside the empty bed always near her own, and thinking tender
thoughts of Beth.
