


Chapter

6
Beth Finds the Palace Beautiful


The big house did prove a Palace Beautiful, though it took some
time for all to get in, and Beth found it very hard to pass the
lions. Old Mr. Laurence was the biggest one, but after he had
called, said something funny or kind to each one of the girls, and
talked over old times with their mother, nobody felt much afraid of
him, except timid Beth. The other lion was the fact that they were
poor and Laurie rich, for this made them shy of accepting favors
which they could not return. But, after a while, they found that he
considered them the benefactors, and could not do enough to show
how grateful he was for Mrs. March's motherly welcome, their
cheerful society, and the comfort he took in that humble home of
theirs. So they soon forgot their pride and interchanged kindnesses
without stopping to think which was the greater.

All sorts of pleasant things happened about that time, for the
new friendship flourished like grass in spring. Every one liked
Laurie, and he privately informed his tutor that "the Marches were
regularly splendid girls." With the delightful enthusiasm of youth,
they took the solitary boy into their midst and made much of him,
and he found something very charming in the innocent companionship
of these simple-hearted girls. Never having known mother or
sisters, he was quick to feel the influences they brought about
him, and their busy, lively ways made him ashamed of the indolent
life he led. He was tired of books, and found people so interesting
now that Mr. Brooke was obliged to make very unsatisfactory
reports, for Laurie was always playing truant and running over to
the Marches'.

"Never mind, let him take a holiday, and make it up afterward,"
said the old gentleman. "The good lady next door says he is
studying too hard and needs young society, amusement, and exercise.
I suspect she is right, and that I've been coddling the fellow as
if I'd been his grandmother. Let him do what he likes, as long as
he is happy. He can't get into mischief in that little nunnery over
there, and Mrs. March is doing more for him than we can."

What good times they had, to be sure. Such plays and tableaux,
such sleigh rides and skating frolics, such pleasant evenings in
the old parlor, and now and then such gay little parties at the
great house. Meg could walk in the conservatory whenever she liked
and revel in bouquets, Jo browsed over the new library voraciously,
and convulsed the old gentleman with her criticisms, Amy copied
pictures and enjoyed beauty to her heart's content, and Laurie
played 'lord of the manor' in the most delightful style.

But Beth, though yearning for the grand piano, could not pluck
up courage to go to the 'Mansion of Bliss', as Meg called it. She
went once with Jo, but the old gentleman, not being aware of her
infirmity, stared at her so hard from under his heavy eyebrows, and
said "Hey!" so loud, that he frightened her so much her 'feet
chattered on the floor', she never told her mother, and she ran
away, declaring she would never go there any more, not even for the
dear piano. No persuasions or enticements could overcome her fear,
till, the fact coming to Mr. Laurence's ear in some mysterious way,
he set about mending matters. During one of the brief calls he
made, he artfully led the conversation to music, and talked away
about great singers whom he had seen, fine organs he had heard, and
told such charming anecdotes that Beth found it impossible to stay
in her distant corner, but crept nearer and nearer, as if
fascinated. At the back of his chair she stopped and stood
listening, with her great eyes wide open and her cheeks red with
excitement of this unusual performance. Taking no more notice of
her than if she had been a fly, Mr. Laurence talked on about
Laurie's lessons and teachers. And presently, as if the idea had
just occurred to him, he said to Mrs. March…

"The boy neglects his music now, and I'm glad of it, for he was
getting too fond of it. But the piano suffers for want of use.
Wouldn't some of your girls like to run over, and practice on it
now and then, just to keep it in tune, you know, ma'am?"

Beth took a step forward, and pressed her hands tightly together
to keep from clapping them, for this was an irresistible
temptation, and the thought of practicing on that splendid
instrument quite took her breath away. Before Mrs. March could
reply, Mr. Laurence went on with an odd little nod and smile…
