
"They needn't see or speak to anyone, but run in at any time.
For I'm shut up in my study at the other end of the house, Laurie
is out a great deal, and the servants are never near the drawing
room after nine o'clock."

Here he rose, as if going, and Beth made up her mind to speak,
for that last arrangement left nothing to be desired. "Please, tell
the young ladies what I say, and if they don't care to come, why,
never mind." Here a little hand slipped into his, and Beth looked
up at him with a face full of gratitude, as she said, in her
earnest yet timid way…

"Oh sir, they do care, very very much!"

"Are you the musical girl?" he asked, without any startling
"Hey!" as he looked down at her very kindly.

"I'm Beth. I love it dearly, and I'll come, if you are quite
sure nobody will hear me, and be disturbed," she added, fearing to
be rude, and trembling at her own boldness as she spoke.

"Not a soul, my dear. The house is empty half the day, so come
and drum away as much as you like, and I shall be obliged to
you."

"How kind you are, sir!"

Beth blushed like a rose under the friendly look he wore, but
she was not frightened now, and gave the hand a grateful squeeze
because she had no words to thank him for the precious gift he had
given her. The old gentleman softly stroked the hair off her
forehead, and, stooping down, he kissed her, saying, in a tone few
people ever heard…

"I had a little girl once, with eyes like these. God bless you,
my dear! Good day, madam." And away he went, in a great hurry.

Beth had a rapture with her mother, and then rushed up to impart
the glorious news to her family of invalids, as the girls were not
home. How blithely she sang that evening, and how they all laughed
at her because she woke Amy in the night by playing the piano on
her face in her sleep. Next day, having seen both the old and young
gentleman out of the house, Beth, after two or three retreats,
fairly got in at the side door, and made her way as noiselessly as
any mouse to the drawing room where her idol stood. Quite by
accident, of course, some pretty, easy music lay on the piano, and
with trembling fingers and frequent stops to listen and look about,
Beth at last touched the great instrument, and straightway forgot
her fear, herself, and everything else but the unspeakable delight
which the music gave her, for it was like the voice of a beloved
friend.

