
"You read it! I can't, I feel so queer! Oh, it is too lovely!"
and Beth hid her face in Jo's apron, quite upset by her
present.

Jo opened the paper and began to laugh, for the first words she
saw were…

"Miss March: "Dear Madam—"

"How nice it sounds! I wish someone would write to me so!" said
Amy, who thought the old-fashioned address very elegant.

"'I have had many pairs of slippers in my life, but I never had
any that suited me so well as yours,'" continues Jo. "'Heartsease
is my favorite flower, and these will always remind me of the
gentle giver. I like to pay my debts, so I know you will allow 'the
old gentleman' to send you something which once belonged to the
little grand daughter he lost. With hearty thanks and best wishes,
I remain "'Your grateful friend and humble servant, 'JAMES
LAURENCE'."

"There, Beth, that's an honor to be proud of, I'm sure! Laurie
told me how fond Mr. Laurence used to be of the child who died, and
how he kept all her little things carefully. Just think, he's given
you her piano. That comes of having big blue eyes and loving
music," said Jo, trying to soothe Beth, who trembled and looked
more excited than she had ever been before.

"See the cunning brackets to hold candles, and the nice green
silk, puckered up, with a gold rose in the middle, and the pretty
rack and stool, all complete," added Meg, opening the instrument
and displaying its beauties.

"'Your humble servant, James Laurence'. Only think of his
writing that to you. I'll tell the girls. They'll think it's
splendid," said Amy, much impressed by the note.

"Try it, honey. Let's hear the sound of the baby pianny," said
Hannah, who always took a share in the family joys and sorrows.

So Beth tried it, and everyone pronounced it the most remarkable
piano ever heard. It had evidently been newly tuned and put in
apple-pie order, but, perfect as it was, I think the real charm lay
in the happiest of all happy faces which leaned over it, as Beth
lovingly touched the beautiful black and white keys and pressed the
bright pedals.

