"You'll have to go and thank him," said Jo, by way of a joke,
for the idea of the child's really going never entered her
head.

"Yes, I mean to. I guess I'll go now, before I get frightened
thinking about it." And, to the utter amazement of the assembled
family, Beth walked deliberately down the garden, through the
hedge, and in at the Laurences' door.

"Well, I wish I may die if it ain't the queerest thing I ever
see! The pianny has turned her head! She'd never have gone in her
right mind," cried Hannah, staring after her, while the girls were
rendered quite speechless by the miracle.

They would have been still more amazed if they had seen what
Beth did afterward. If you will believe me, she went and knocked at
the study door before she gave herself time to think, and when a
gruff voice called out, "come in!" she did go in, right up to Mr.
Laurence, who looked quite taken aback, and held out her hand,
saying, with only a small quaver in her voice, "I came to thank
you, sir, for… " But she didn't finish, for he looked so friendly
that she forgot her speech and, only remembering that he had lost
the little girl he loved, she put both arms round his neck and
kissed him.

If the roof of the house had suddenly flown off, the old
gentleman wouldn't have been more astonished. But he liked it. Oh,
dear, yes, he liked it amazingly! And was so touched and pleased by
that confiding little kiss that all his crustiness vanished, and he
just set her on his knee, and laid his wrinkled cheek against her
rosy one, feeling as if he had got his own little granddaughter
back again. Beth ceased to fear him from that moment, and sat there
talking to him as cozily as if she had known him all her life, for
love casts out fear, and gratitude can conquer pride. When she went
home, he walked with her to her own gate, shook hands cordially,
and touched his hat as he marched back again, looking very stately
and erect, like a handsome, soldierly old gentleman, as he was.

When the girls saw that performance, Jo began to dance a jig, by
way of expressing her satisfaction, Amy nearly fell out of the
window in her surprise, and Meg exclaimed, with up-lifted hands,
"Well, I do believe the world is coming to an end."




