They had a charming time, for&#160;
The Seven Castles Of The
Diamond Lake
&#160;was as brilliant and wonderful as heart
could wish. But in spite of the comical red imps, sparkling elves,
and the gorgeous princes and princesses, Jo's pleasure had a drop
of bitterness in it. The fairy queen's yellow curls reminded her of
Amy, and between the acts she amused herself with wondering what
her sister would do to make her 'sorry for it'. She and Amy had had
many lively skirmishes in the course of their lives, for both had
quick tempers and were apt to be violent when fairly roused. Amy
teased Jo, and Jo irritated Amy, and semioccasional explosions
occurred, of which both were much ashamed afterward. Although the
oldest, Jo had the least self-control, and had hard times trying to
curb the fiery spirit which was continually getting her into
trouble. Her anger never lasted long, and having humbly confessed
her fault, she sincerely repented and tried to do better. Her
sisters used to say that they rather liked to get Jo into a fury
because she was such an angel afterward. Poor Jo tried desperately
to be good, but her bosom enemy was always ready to flame up and
defeat her, and it took years of patient effort to subdue it.

When they got home, they found Amy reading in the parlor. She
assumed an injured air as they came in, never lifted her eyes from
her book, or asked a single question. Perhaps curiosity might have
conquered resentment, if Beth had not been there to inquire and
receive a glowing description of the play. On going up to put away
her best hat, Jo's first look was toward the bureau, for in their
last quarrel Amy had soothed her feelings by turning Jo's top
drawer upside down on the floor. Everything was in its place,
however, and after a hasty glance into her various closets, bags,
and boxes, Jo decided that Amy had forgiven and forgotten her
wrongs.

There Jo was mistaken, for next day she made a discovery which
produced a tempest. Meg, Beth, and Amy were sitting together, late
in the afternoon, when Jo burst into the room, looking excited and
demanding breathlessly, "Has anyone taken my book?"

Meg and Beth said, "No." at once, and looked surprised. Amy
poked the fire and said nothing. Jo saw her color rise and was down
upon her in a minute.

"Amy, you've got it!"

"No, I haven't."

"You know where it is, then!"

"No, I don't."

"That's a fib!" cried Jo, taking her by the shoulders, and
looking fierce enough to frighten a much braver child than Amy.

"It isn't. I haven't got it, don't know where it is now, and
don't care."
