
The patience and the humility of the face she loved so well was
a better lesson to Jo than the wisest lecture, the sharpest
reproof. She felt comforted at once by the sympathy and confidence
given her. The knowledge that her mother had a fault like hers, and
tried to mend it, made her own easier to bear and strengthened her
resolution to cure it, though forty years seemed rather a long time
to watch and pray to a girl of fifteen.

"Mother, are you angry when you fold your lips tight together
and go out of the room sometimes, when Aunt March scolds or people
worry you?" asked Jo, feeling nearer and dearer to her mother than
ever before.

"Yes, I've learned to check the hasty words that rise to my
lips, and when I feel that they mean to break out against my will,
I just go away for a minute, and give myself a little shake for
being so weak and wicked," answered Mrs. March with a sigh and a
smile, as she smoothed and fastened up Jo's disheveled hair.

"How did you learn to keep still? That is what troubles me, for
the sharp words fly out before I know what I'm about, and the more
I say the worse I get, till it's a pleasure to hurt people's
feelings and say dreadful things. Tell me how you do it, Marmee
dear."

"My good mother used to help me… "

"As you do us… " interrupted Jo, with a grateful kiss.

"But I lost her when I was a little older than you are, and for
years had to struggle on alone, for I was too proud to confess my
weakness to anyone else. I had a hard time, Jo, and shed a good
many bitter tears over my failures, for in spite of my efforts I
never seemed to get on. Then your father came, and I was so happy
that I found it easy to be good. But by-and-by, when I had four
little daughters round me and we were poor, then the old trouble
began again, for I am not patient by nature, and it tried me very
much to see my children wanting anything."

"Poor Mother! What helped you then?"

"Your father, Jo. He never loses patience, never doubts or
complains, but always hopes, and works and waits so cheerfully that
one is ashamed to do otherwise before him. He helped and comforted
me, and showed me that I must try to practice all the virtues I
would have my little girls possess, for I was their example. It was
easier to try for your sakes than for my own. A startled or
surprised look from one of you when I spoke sharply rebuked me more
than any words could have done, and the love, respect, and
confidence of my children was the sweetest reward I could receive
for my efforts to be the woman I would have them copy."

"Oh, Mother, if I'm ever half as good as you, I shall be
satisfied," cried Jo, much touched.

