
"I'm not! And if turning up my hair makes me one, I'll wear it
in two tails till I'm twenty," cried Jo, pulling off her net, and
shaking down a chestnut mane. "I hate to think I've got to grow up,
and be Miss March, and wear long gowns, and look as prim as a China
Aster! It's bad enough to be a girl, anyway, when I like boy's
games and work and manners! I can't get over my disappointment in
not being a boy. And it's worse than ever now, for I'm dying to go
and fight with Papa. And I can only stay home and knit, like a poky
old woman!"

And Jo shook the blue army sock till the needles rattled like
castanets, and her ball bounded across the room.

"Poor Jo! It's too bad, but it can't be helped. So you must try
to be contented with making your name boyish, and playing brother
to us girls," said Beth, stroking the rough head with a hand that
all the dish washing and dusting in the world could not make
ungentle in its touch.

"As for you, Amy," continued Meg, "you are altogether too
particular and prim. Your airs are funny now, but you'll grow up an
affected little goose, if you don't take care. I like your nice
manners and refined ways of speaking, when you don't try to be
elegant. But your absurd words are as bad as Jo's slang."

"If Jo is a tomboy and Amy a goose, what am I, please?" asked
Beth, ready to share the lecture.

"You're a dear, and nothing else," answered Meg warmly, and no
one contradicted her, for the 'Mouse' was the pet of the
family.

As young readers like to know 'how people look', we will take
this moment to give them a little sketch of the four sisters, who
sat knitting away in the twilight, while the December snow fell
quietly without, and the fire crackled cheerfully within. It was a
comfortable room, though the carpet was faded and the furniture
very plain, for a good picture or two hung on the walls, books
filled the recesses, chrysanthemums and Christmas roses bloomed in
the windows, and a pleasant atmosphere of home peace pervaded
it.

Margaret, the eldest of the four, was sixteen, and very pretty,
being plump and fair, with large eyes, plenty of soft brown hair, a
sweet mouth, and white hands, of which she was rather vain.
Fifteen-year-old Jo was very tall, thin, and brown, and reminded
one of a colt, for she never seemed to know what to do with her
long limbs, which were very much in her way. She had a decided
mouth, a comical nose, and sharp, gray eyes, which appeared to see
everything, and were by turns fierce, funny, or thoughtful. Her
long, thick hair was her one beauty, but it was usually bundled
into a net, to be out of her way. Round shoulders had Jo, big hands
and feet, a flyaway look to her clothes, and the uncomfortable
appearance of a girl who was rapidly shooting up into a woman and
didn't like it. Elizabeth, or Beth, as everyone called her, was a
rosy, smooth-haired, bright-eyed girl of thirteen, with a shy
manner, a timid voice, and a peaceful expression which was seldom
disturbed. Her father called her 'Little Miss Tranquility', and the
name suited her excellently, for she seemed to live in a happy
world of her own, only venturing out to meet the few whom she
trusted and loved. Amy, though the youngest, was a most important
person, in her own opinion at least. A regular snow maiden, with
blue eyes, and yellow hair curling on her shoulders, pale and
slender, and always carrying herself like a young lady mindful of
her manners. What the characters of the four sisters were we will
leave to be found out.

The clock struck six and, having swept up the hearth, Beth put a
pair of slippers down to warm. Somehow the sight of the old shoes
had a good effect upon the girls, for Mother was coming, and
everyone brightened to welcome her. Meg stopped lecturing, and
lighted the lamp, Amy got out of the easy chair without being
asked, and Jo forgot how tired she was as she sat up to hold the
slippers nearer to the blaze.

"They are quite worn out. Marmee must have a new pair."

