"You said the other day that you'd be perfectly happy if you
could only go to Annie Moffat's," observed Beth in her quiet
way.

"So I did! Well, I am happy, and I won't fret, but it does seem
as if the more one gets the more one wants, doesn't it? There now,
the trays are ready, and everything in but my ball dress, which I
shall leave for Mother to pack," said Meg, cheering up, as she
glanced from the half-filled trunk to the many times pressed and
mended white tarlaton, which she called her 'ball dress' with an
important air.

The next day was fine, and Meg departed in style for a fortnight
of novelty and pleasure. Mrs. March had consented to the visit
rather reluctantly, fearing that Margaret would come back more
discontented than she went. But she begged so hard, and Sallie had
promised to take good care of her, and a little pleasure seemed so
delightful after a winter of irksome work that the mother yielded,
and the daughter went to take her first taste of fashionable
life.

The Moffats were very fashionable, and simple Meg was rather
daunted, at first, by the splendor of the house and the elegance of
its occupants. But they were kindly people, in spite of the
frivolous life they led, and soon put their guest at her ease.
Perhaps Meg felt, without understanding why, that they were not
particularly cultivated or intelligent people, and that all their
gilding could not quite conceal the ordinary material of which they
were made. It certainly was agreeable to fare sumptuously, drive in
a fine carriage, wear her best frock every day, and do nothing but
enjoy herself. It suited her exactly, and soon she began to imitate
the manners and conversation of those about her, to put on little
airs and graces, use French phrases, crimp her hair, take in her
dresses, and talk about the fashions as well as she could. The more
she saw of Annie Moffat's pretty things, the more she envied her
and sighed to be rich. Home now looked bare and dismal as she
thought of it, work grew harder than ever, and she felt that she
was a very destitute and much-injured girl, in spite of the new
gloves and silk stockings.

She had not much time for repining, however, for the three young
girls were busily employed in 'having a good time'. They shopped,
walked, rode, and called all day, went to theaters and operas or
frolicked at home in the evening, for Annie had many friends and
knew how to entertain them. Her older sisters were very fine young
ladies, and one was engaged, which was extremely interesting and
romantic, Meg thought. Mr. Moffat was a fat, jolly old gentleman,
who knew her father, and Mrs. Moffat, a fat, jolly old lady, who
took as great a fancy to Meg as her daughter had done. Everyone
petted her, and 'Daisey', as they called her, was in a fair way to
have her head turned.

When the evening for the small party came, she found that the
poplin wouldn't do at all, for the other girls were putting on thin
dresses and making themselves very fine indeed. So out came the
tarlatan, looking older, limper, and shabbier than ever beside
Sallie's crisp new one. Meg saw the girls glance at it and then at
one another, and her cheeks began to burn, for with all her
gentleness she was very proud. No one said a word about it, but
Sallie offered to dress her hair, and Annie to tie her sash, and
Belle, the engaged sister, praised her white arms. But in their
kindness Meg saw only pity for her poverty, and her heart felt very
heavy as she stood by herself, while the others laughed, chattered,
and flew about like gauzy butterflies. The hard, bitter feeling was
getting pretty bad, when the maid brought in a box of flowers.
Before she could speak, Annie had the cover off, and all were
exclaiming at the lovely roses, heath, and fern within.

"It's for Belle, of course, George always sends her some, but
these are altogether ravishing," cried Annie, with a great
sniff.

"They are for Miss March, the man said. And here's a note," put
in the maid, holding it to Meg.

"What fun! Who are they from? Didn't know you had a lover,"
cried the girls, fluttering about Meg in a high state of curiosity
and surprise.

"The note is from Mother, and the flowers from Laurie," said Meg
simply, yet much gratified that he had not forgotten her.

"Oh, indeed!" said Annie with a funny look, as Meg slipped the
note into her pocket as a sort of talisman against envy, vanity,
and false pride, for the few loving words had done her good, and
the flowers cheered her up by their beauty.
