"Not at all. Where is the use of having a lot of dresses when
she isn't out yet? There's no need of sending home, Daisy, even if
you had a dozen, for I've got a sweet blue silk laid away, which
I've outgrown, and you shall wear it to please me, won't you,
dear?"

"You are very kind, but I don't mind my old dress if you don't,
it does well enough for a little girl like me," said Meg.

"Now do let me please myself by dressing you up in style. I
admire to do it, and you'd be a regular little beauty with a touch
here and there. I shan't let anyone see you till you are done, and
then we'll burst upon them like Cinderella and her godmother going
to the ball," said Belle in her persuasive tone.

Meg couldn't refuse the offer so kindly made, for a desire to
see if she would be 'a little beauty' after touching up caused her
to accept and forget all her former uncomfortable feelings toward
the Moffats.

On the Thursday evening, Belle shut herself up with her maid,
and between them they turned Meg into a fine lady. They crimped and
curled her hair, they polished her neck and arms with some fragrant
powder, touched her lips with coralline salve to make them redder,
and Hortense would have added 'a soupcon of rouge', if Meg had not
rebelled. They laced her into a sky-blue dress, which was so tight
she could hardly breathe and so low in the neck that modest Meg
blushed at herself in the mirror. A set of silver filagree was
added, bracelets, necklace, brooch, and even earrings, for Hortense
tied them on with a bit of pink silk which did not show. A cluster
of tea-rose buds at the bosom, and a ruche, reconciled Meg to the
display of her pretty, white shoulders, and a pair of high-heeled
silk boots satisfied the last wish of her heart. A lace
handkerchief, a plumy fan, and a bouquet in a shoulder holder
finished her off, and Miss Belle surveyed her with the satisfaction
of a little girl with a newly dressed doll.

"Mademoiselle is charmante, tres jolie, is she not?" cried
Hortense, clasping her hands in an affected rapture.

"Come and show yourself," said Miss Belle, leading the way to
the room where the others were waiting.

As Meg went rustling after, with her long skirts trailing, her
earrings tinkling, her curls waving, and her heart beating, she
felt as if her fun had really begun at last, for the mirror had
plainly told her that she was 'a little beauty'. Her friends
repeated the pleasing phrase enthusiastically, and for several
minutes she stood, like a jackdaw in the fable, enjoying her
borrowed plumes, while the rest chattered like a party of
magpies.

"While I dress, do you drill her, Nan, in the management of her
skirt and those French heels, or she will trip herself up. Take
your silver butterfly, and catch up that long curl on the left side
of her head, Clara, and don't any of you disturb the charming work
of my hands," said Belle, as she hurried away, looking well pleased
with her success.

"You don't look a bit like yourself, but you are very nice. I'm
nowhere beside you, for Belle has heaps of taste, and you're quite
French, I assure you. Let your flowers hang, don't be so careful of
them, and be sure you don't trip," returned Sallie, trying not to
care that Meg was prettier than herself.

Keeping that warning carefully in mind, Margaret got safely down
stairs and sailed into the drawing rooms where the Moffats and a
few early guests were assembled. She very soon discovered that
there is a charm about fine clothes which attracts a certain class
of people and secures their respect. Several young ladies, who had
taken no notice of her before, were very affectionate all of a
sudden. Several young gentlemen, who had only stared at her at the
other party, now not only stared, but asked to be introduced, and
said all manner of foolish but agreeable things to her, and several
old ladies, who sat on the sofas, and criticized the rest of the
party, inquired who she was with an air of interest. She heard Mrs.
Moffat reply to one of them…
