
"Daisy March—father a colonel in the army—one of our first
families, but reverses of fortune, you know; intimate friends of
the Laurences; sweet creature, I assure you; my Ned is quite wild
about her."

"Dear me!" said the old lady, putting up her glass for another
observation of Meg, who tried to look as if she had not heard and
been rather shocked at Mrs. Moffat's fibs. The 'queer feeling' did
not pass away, but she imagined herself acting the new part of fine
lady and so got on pretty well, though the tight dress gave her a
side-ache, the train kept getting under her feet, and she was in
constant fear lest her earrings should fly off and get lost or
broken. She was flirting her fan and laughing at the feeble jokes
of a young gentleman who tried to be witty, when she suddenly
stopped laughing and looked confused, for just opposite, she saw
Laurie. He was staring at her with undisguised surprise, and
disapproval also, she thought, for though he bowed and smiled, yet
something in his honest eyes made her blush and wish she had her
old dress on. To complete her confusion, she saw Belle nudge Annie,
and both glance from her to Laurie, who, she was happy to see,
looked unusually boyish and shy.

"Silly creatures, to put such thoughts into my head. I won't
care for it, or let it change me a bit," thought Meg, and rustled
across the room to shake hands with her friend.

"I'm glad you came, I was afraid you wouldn't." she said, with
her most grown-up air.

"Jo wanted me to come, and tell her how you looked, so I did,"
answered Laurie, without turning his eyes upon her, though he half
smiled at her maternal tone.

"What shall you tell her?" asked Meg, full of curiosity to know
his opinion of her, yet feeling ill at ease with him for the first
time.

"I shall say I didn't know you, for you look so grown-up and
unlike yourself, I'm quite afraid of you," he said, fumbling at his
glove button.

"How absurd of you! The girls dressed me up for fun, and I
rather like it. Wouldn't Jo stare if she saw me?" said Meg, bent on
making him say whether he thought her improved or not.

"Yes, I think she would," returned Laurie gravely.

"Don't you like me so?" asked Meg.

