"Just say I looked pretty well and was having a good time."

"I'll say the first with all my heart, but how about the other?
You don't look as if you were having a good time. Are you?" And
Laurie looked at her with an expression which made her answer in a
whisper…

"No, not just now. Don't think I'm horrid. I only wanted a
little fun, but this sort doesn't pay, I find, and I'm getting
tired of it."

"Here comes Ned Moffat. What does he want?" said Laurie,
knitting his black brows as if he did not regard his young host in
the light of a pleasant addition to the party.

"He put his name down for three dances, and I suppose he's
coming for them. What a bore!" said Meg, assuming a languid air
which amused Laurie immensely.

He did not speak to her again till suppertime, when he saw her
drinking champagne with Ned and his friend Fisher, who were
behaving 'like a pair of fools', as Laurie said to himself, for he
felt a brotherly sort of right to watch over the Marches and fight
their battles whenever a defender was needed.

"You'll have a splitting headache tomorrow, if you drink much of
that. I wouldn't, Meg, your mother doesn't like it, you know," he
whispered, leaning over her chair, as Ned turned to refill her
glass and Fisher stooped to pick up her fan.

"I'm not Meg tonight, I'm 'a doll' who does all sorts of crazy
things. Tomorrow I shall put away my 'fuss and feathers' and be
desperately good again," she answered with an affected little
laugh.

"Wish tomorrow was here, then," muttered Laurie, walking off,
ill-pleased at the change he saw in her.

Meg danced and flirted, chattered and giggled, as the other
girls did. After supper she undertook the German, and blundered
through it, nearly upsetting her partner with her long skirt, and
romping in a way that scandalized Laurie, who looked on and
meditated a lecture. But he got no chance to deliver it, for Meg
kept away from him till he came to say good night.

"Remember!" she said, trying to smile, for the splitting
headache had already begun.
