"Oh! as for me, my judgment is worth nothing. Where I have a
regard, I always think a person well-looking. But I gave what I
believed the general opinion, when I called him plain."

"Well, my dear Jane, I believe we must be running away. The
weather does not look well, and grandmama will be uneasy. You are
too obliging, my dear Miss Woodhouse; but we really must take
leave. This has been a most agreeable piece of news indeed. I shall
just go round by Mrs. Cole's; but I shall not stop three minutes:
and, Jane, you had better go home directly—I would not have you out
in a shower!—We think she is the better for Highbury already. Thank
you, we do indeed. I shall not attempt calling on Mrs. Goddard, for
I really do not think she cares for any thing but boiled pork: when
we dress the leg it will be another thing. Good morning to you, my
dear sir. Oh! Mr. Knightley is coming too. Well, that is so very!—I
am sure if Jane is tired, you will be so kind as to give her your
arm.—Mr. Elton, and Miss Hawkins!—Good morning to you."

Emma, alone with her father, had half her attention wanted by
him while he lamented that young people would be in such a hurry to
marry— and to marry strangers too—and the other half she could give
to her own view of the subject. It was to herself an amusing and a
very welcome piece of news, as proving that Mr. Elton could not
have suffered long; but she was sorry for Harriet: Harriet must
feel it—and all that she could hope was, by giving the first
information herself, to save her from hearing it abruptly from
others. It was now about the time that she was likely to call. If
she were to meet Miss Bates in her way!—and upon its beginning to
rain, Emma was obliged to expect that the weather would be
detaining her at Mrs. Goddard's, and that the intelligence would
undoubtedly rush upon her without preparation.

The shower was heavy, but short; and it had not been over five
minutes, when in came Harriet, with just the heated, agitated look
which hurrying thither with a full heart was likely to give; and
the "Oh! Miss Woodhouse, what do you think has happened!" which
instantly burst forth, had all the evidence of corresponding
perturbation. As the blow was given, Emma felt that she could not
now shew greater kindness than in listening; and Harriet,
unchecked, ran eagerly through what she had to tell. "She had set
out from Mrs. Goddard's half an hour ago—she had been afraid it
would rain—she had been afraid it would pour down every moment—but
she thought she might get to Hartfield first—she had hurried on as
fast as possible; but then, as she was passing by the house where a
young woman was making up a gown for her, she thought she would
just step in and see how it went on; and though she did not seem to
stay half a moment there, soon after she came out it began to rain,
and she did not know what to do; so she ran on directly, as fast as
she could, and took shelter at Ford's."—Ford's was the principal
woollen-draper, linen-draper, and haberdasher's shop united; the
shop first in size and fashion in the place.—"And so, there she had
set, without an idea of any thing in the world, full ten minutes,
perhaps—when, all of a sudden, who should come in— to be sure it
was so very odd!—but they always dealt at Ford's— who should come
in, but Elizabeth Martin and her brother!— Dear Miss Woodhouse!
only think. I thought I should have fainted. I did not know what to
do. I was sitting near the door—Elizabeth saw me directly; but he
did not; he was busy with the umbrella. I am sure she saw me, but
she looked away directly, and took no notice; and they both went to
quite the farther end of the shop; and I kept sitting near the
door!—Oh! dear; I was so miserable! I am sure I must have been as
white as my gown. I could not go away you know, because of the
rain; but I did so wish myself anywhere in the world but there.—Oh!
dear, Miss Woodhouse—well, at last, I fancy, he looked round and
saw me; for instead of going on with her buyings, they began
whispering to one another. I am sure they were talking of me; and I
could not help thinking that he was persuading her to speak to
me—(do you think he was, Miss Woodhouse?)—for presently she came
forward—came quite up to me, and asked me how I did, and seemed
ready to shake hands, if I would. She did not do any of it in the
same way that she used; I could see she was altered; but, however,
she seemed to try to be very friendly, and we shook hands, and
stood talking some time; but I know no more what I said—I was in
such a tremble!—I remember she said she was sorry we never met now;
which I thought almost too kind! Dear, Miss Woodhouse, I was
absolutely miserable! By that time, it was beginning to hold up,
and I was determined that nothing should stop me from getting
away—and then—only think!— I found he was coming up towards me
too—slowly you know, and as if he did not quite know what to do;
and so he came and spoke, and I answered—and I stood for a minute,
feeling dreadfully, you know, one can't tell how; and then I took
courage, and said it did not rain, and I must go; and so off I set;
and I had not got three yards from the door, when he came after me,
only to say, if I was going to Hartfield, he thought I had much
better go round by Mr. Cole's stables, for I should find the near
way quite floated by this rain. Oh! dear, I thought it would have
been the death of me! So I said, I was very much obliged to him:
you know I could not do less; and then he went back to Elizabeth,
and I came round by the stables—I believe I did—but I hardly knew
where I was, or any thing about it. Oh! Miss Woodhouse, I would
rather done any thing than have it happen: and yet, you know, there
was a sort of satisfaction in seeing him behave so pleasantly and
so kindly. And Elizabeth, too. Oh! Miss Woodhouse, do talk to me
and make me comfortable again."

Very sincerely did Emma wish to do so; but it was not
immediately in her power. She was obliged to stop and think. She
was not thoroughly comfortable herself. The young man's conduct,
and his sister's, seemed the result of real feeling, and she could
not but pity them. As Harriet described it, there had been an
interesting mixture of wounded affection and genuine delicacy in
their behaviour. But she had believed them to be well-meaning,
worthy people before; and what difference did this make in the
evils of the connexion? It was folly to be disturbed by it. Of
course, he must be sorry to lose her—they must be all sorry.
Ambition, as well as love, had probably been mortified. They might
all have hoped to rise by Harriet's acquaintance: and besides, what
was the value of Harriet's description?—So easily pleased—so little
discerning;— what signified her praise?

She exerted herself, and did try to make her comfortable, by
considering all that had passed as a mere trifle, and quite
unworthy of being dwelt on,

"It might be distressing, for the moment," said she; "but you
seem to have behaved extremely well; and it is over—and may never—
can never, as a first meeting, occur again, and therefore you need
not think about it."

Harriet said, "very true," and she "would not think about it;"
but still she talked of it—still she could talk of nothing else;
and Emma, at last, in order to put the Martins out of her head, was
obliged to hurry on the news, which she had meant to give with so
much tender caution; hardly knowing herself whether to rejoice or
be angry, ashamed or only amused, at such a state of mind in poor
Harriet—such a conclusion of Mr. Elton's importance with her!

Mr. Elton's rights, however, gradually revived. Though she did
not feel the first intelligence as she might have done the day
before, or an hour before, its interest soon increased; and before
their first conversation was over, she had talked herself into all
the sensations of curiosity, wonder and regret, pain and pleasure,
as to this fortunate Miss Hawkins, which could conduce to place the
Martins under proper subordination in her fancy.

Emma learned to be rather glad that there had been such a
meeting. It had been serviceable in deadening the first shock,
without retaining any influence to alarm. As Harriet now lived, the
Martins could not get at her, without seeking her, where hitherto
they had wanted either the courage or the condescension to seek
her; for since her refusal of the brother, the sisters never had
been at Mrs. Goddard's; and a twelvemonth might pass without their
being thrown together again, with any necessity, or even any power
of speech.


