During his present short stay, Emma had barely seen him; but
just enough to feel that the first meeting was over, and to give
her the impression of his not being improved by the mixture of
pique and pretension, now spread over his air. She was, in fact,
beginning very much to wonder that she had ever thought him
pleasing at all; and his sight was so inseparably connected with
some very disagreeable feelings, that, except in a moral light, as
a penance, a lesson, a source of profitable humiliation to her own
mind, she would have been thankful to be assured of never seeing
him again. She wished him very well; but he gave her pain, and his
welfare twenty miles off would administer most satisfaction.

The pain of his continued residence in Highbury, however, must
certainly be lessened by his marriage. Many vain solicitudes would
be prevented— many awkwardnesses smoothed by it. A Mrs. Elton would
be an excuse for any change of intercourse; former intimacy might
sink without remark. It would be almost beginning their life of
civility again.

Of the lady, individually, Emma thought very little. She was
good enough for Mr. Elton, no doubt; accomplished enough for
Highbury— handsome enough—to look plain, probably, by Harriet's
side. As to connexion, there Emma was perfectly easy; persuaded,
that after all his own vaunted claims and disdain of Harriet, he
had done nothing. On that article, truth seemed attainable. What
she was, must be uncertain; but who she was, might be found out;
and setting aside the 10,000 l., it did not appear that she was at
all Harriet's superior. She brought no name, no blood, no alliance.
Miss Hawkins was the youngest of the two daughters of a Bristol—
merchant, of course, he must be called; but, as the whole of the
profits of his mercantile life appeared so very moderate, it was
not unfair to guess the dignity of his line of trade had been very
moderate also. Part of every winter she had been used to spend in
Bath; but Bristol was her home, the very heart of Bristol; for
though the father and mother had died some years ago, an uncle
remained— in the law line—nothing more distinctly honourable was
hazarded of him, than that he was in the law line; and with him the
daughter had lived. Emma guessed him to be the drudge of some
attorney, and too stupid to rise. And all the grandeur of the
connexion seemed dependent on the elder sister, who was very well
married, to a gentleman in a great way, near Bristol, who kept two
carriages! That was the wind-up of the history; that was the glory
of Miss Hawkins.

Could she but have given Harriet her feelings about it all! She
had talked her into love; but, alas! she was not so easily to be
talked out of it. The charm of an object to occupy the many
vacancies of Harriet's mind was not to be talked away. He might be
superseded by another; he certainly would indeed; nothing could be
clearer; even a Robert Martin would have been sufficient; but
nothing else, she feared, would cure her. Harriet was one of those,
who, having once begun, would be always in love. And now, poor
girl! she was considerably worse from this reappearance of Mr.
Elton. She was always having a glimpse of him somewhere or other.
Emma saw him only once; but two or three times every day Harriet
was sure just to meet with him, or just to miss him, just to hear
his voice, or see his shoulder, just to have something occur to
preserve him in her fancy, in all the favouring warmth of surprize
and conjecture. She was, moreover, perpetually hearing about him;
for, excepting when at Hartfield, she was always among those who
saw no fault in Mr. Elton, and found nothing so interesting as the
discussion of his concerns; and every report, therefore, every
guess—all that had already occurred, all that might occur in the
arrangement of his affairs, comprehending income, servants, and
furniture, was continually in agitation around her. Her regard was
receiving strength by invariable praise of him, and her regrets
kept alive, and feelings irritated by ceaseless repetitions of Miss
Hawkins's happiness, and continual observation of, how much he
seemed attached!— his air as he walked by the house—the very
sitting of his hat, being all in proof of how much he was in
love!

Had it been allowable entertainment, had there been no pain to
her friend, or reproach to herself, in the waverings of Harriet's
mind, Emma would have been amused by its variations. Sometimes Mr.
Elton predominated, sometimes the Martins; and each was
occasionally useful as a check to the other. Mr. Elton's engagement
had been the cure of the agitation of meeting Mr. Martin. The
unhappiness produced by the knowledge of that engagement had been a
little put aside by Elizabeth Martin's calling at Mrs. Goddard's a
few days afterwards. Harriet had not been at home; but a note had
been prepared and left for her, written in the very style to touch;
a small mixture of reproach, with a great deal of kindness; and
till Mr. Elton himself appeared, she had been much occupied by it,
continually pondering over what could be done in return, and
wishing to do more than she dared to confess. But Mr. Elton, in
person, had driven away all such cares. While he staid, the Martins
were forgotten; and on the very morning of his setting off for Bath
again, Emma, to dissipate some of the distress it occasioned,
judged it best for her to return Elizabeth Martin's visit.

How that visit was to be acknowledged—what would be necessary—
and what might be safest, had been a point of some doubtful
consideration. Absolute neglect of the mother and sisters, when
invited to come, would be ingratitude. It must not be: and yet the
danger of a renewal of the acquaintance!—

After much thinking, she could determine on nothing better, than
Harriet's returning the visit; but in a way that, if they had
understanding, should convince them that it was to be only a formal
acquaintance. She meant to take her in the carriage, leave her at
the Abbey Mill, while she drove a little farther, and call for her
again so soon, as to allow no time for insidious applications or
dangerous recurrences to the past, and give the most decided proof
of what degree of intimacy was chosen for the future.

She could think of nothing better: and though there was
something in it which her own heart could not approve—something of
ingratitude, merely glossed over—it must be done, or what would
become of Harriet?




