
"Oh!"

"They talked a great deal about him, especially Anne Cox. I do
not know what she meant, but she asked me if I thought I should go
and stay there again next summer."

"She meant to be impertinently curious, just as such an Anne Cox
should be."

"She said he was very agreeable the day he dined there. He sat
by her at dinner. Miss Nash thinks either of the Coxes would be
very glad to marry him."

"Very likely.—I think they are, without exception, the most
vulgar girls in Highbury."

Harriet had business at Ford's.—Emma thought it most prudent to
go with her. Another accidental meeting with the Martins was
possible, and in her present state, would be dangerous.

Harriet, tempted by every thing and swayed by half a word, was
always very long at a purchase; and while she was still hanging
over muslins and changing her mind, Emma went to the door for
amusement.—Much could not be hoped from the traffic of even the
busiest part of Highbury;— Mr. Perry walking hastily by, Mr.
William Cox letting himself in at the office-door, Mr. Cole's
carriage-horses returning from exercise, or a stray letter-boy on
an obstinate mule, were the liveliest objects she could presume to
expect; and when her eyes fell only on the butcher with his tray, a
tidy old woman travelling homewards from shop with her full basket,
two curs quarrelling over a dirty bone, and a string of dawdling
children round the baker's little bow-window eyeing the
gingerbread, she knew she had no reason to complain, and was amused
enough; quite enough still to stand at the door. A mind lively and
at ease, can do with seeing nothing, and can see nothing that does
not answer.

She looked down the Randalls road. The scene enlarged; two
persons appeared; Mrs. Weston and her son-in-law; they were walking
into Highbury;—to Hartfield of course. They were stopping, however,
in the first place at Mrs. Bates's; whose house was a little nearer
Randalls than Ford's; and had all but knocked, when Emma caught
their eye.—Immediately they crossed the road and came forward to
her; and the agreeableness of yesterday's engagement seemed to give
fresh pleasure to the present meeting. Mrs. Weston informed her
that she was going to call on the Bateses, in order to hear the new
instrument.

"For my companion tells me," said she, "that I absolutely
promised Miss Bates last night, that I would come this morning. I
was not aware of it myself. I did not know that I had fixed a day,
but as he says I did, I am going now."

"And while Mrs. Weston pays her visit, I may be allowed, I
hope," said Frank Churchill, "to join your party and wait for her
at Hartfield— if you are going home."

