


Chapter

12

&#160;


One thing only was wanting to make the prospect of the ball
completely satisfactory to Emma—its being fixed for a day within
the granted term of Frank Churchill's stay in Surry; for, in spite
of Mr. Weston's confidence, she could not think it so very
impossible that the Churchills might not allow their nephew to
remain a day beyond his fortnight. But this was not judged
feasible. The preparations must take their time, nothing could be
properly ready till the third week were entered on, and for a few
days they must be planning, proceeding and hoping in uncertainty—at
the risk— in her opinion, the great risk, of its being all in
vain.

Enscombe however was gracious, gracious in fact, if not in word.
His wish of staying longer evidently did not please; but it was not
opposed. All was safe and prosperous; and as the removal of one
solicitude generally makes way for another, Emma, being now certain
of her ball, began to adopt as the next vexation Mr. Knightley's
provoking indifference about it. Either because he did not dance
himself, or because the plan had been formed without his being
consulted, he seemed resolved that it should not interest him,
determined against its exciting any present curiosity, or affording
him any future amusement. To her voluntary communications Emma
could get no more approving reply, than,

"Very well. If the Westons think it worth while to be at all
this trouble for a few hours of noisy entertainment, I have nothing
to say against it, but that they shall not chuse pleasures for me.—
Oh! yes, I must be there; I could not refuse; and I will keep as
much awake as I can; but I would rather be at home, looking over
William Larkins's week's account; much rather, I confess.— Pleasure
in seeing dancing!—not I, indeed—I never look at it— I do not know
who does.—Fine dancing, I believe, like virtue, must be its own
reward. Those who are standing by are usually thinking of something
very different."

This Emma felt was aimed at her; and it made her quite angry. It
was not in compliment to Jane Fairfax however that he was so
indifferent, or so indignant; he was not guided by her feelings in
reprobating the ball, for she enjoyed the thought of it to an
extraordinary degree. It made her animated—open hearted— she
voluntarily said;—

"Oh! Miss Woodhouse, I hope nothing may happen to prevent the
ball. What a disappointment it would be! I do look forward to it, I
own, with very great pleasure."

It was not to oblige Jane Fairfax therefore that he would have
preferred the society of William Larkins. No!—she was more and more
convinced that Mrs. Weston was quite mistaken in that surmise.
There was a great deal of friendly and of compassionate attachment
on his side—but no love.

