Emma was quite at a loss. The tone implied some old
acquaintance— and how could she possibly guess?

"Knightley!" continued Mrs. Elton; "Knightley himself!—Was not
it lucky?—for, not being within when he called the other day, I had
never seen him before; and of course, as so particular a friend of
Mr. E.'s, I had a great curiosity. `My friend Knightley' had been
so often mentioned, that I was really impatient to see him; and I
must do my caro sposo the justice to say that he need not be
ashamed of his friend. Knightley is quite the gentleman. I like him
very much. Decidedly, I think, a very gentleman-like man."

Happily, it was now time to be gone. They were off; and Emma
could breathe.

"Insufferable woman!" was her immediate exclamation. "Worse than
I had supposed. Absolutely insufferable! Knightley!—I could not
have believed it. Knightley!—never seen him in her life before, and
call him Knightley!—and discover that he is a gentleman! A little
upstart, vulgar being, with her Mr. E., and her caro sposo, and her
resources, and all her airs of pert pretension and underbred
finery. Actually to discover that Mr. Knightley is a gentleman! I
doubt whether he will return the compliment, and discover her to be
a lady. I could not have believed it! And to propose that she and I
should unite to form a musical club! One would fancy we were bosom
friends! And Mrs. Weston!— Astonished that the person who had
brought me up should be a gentlewoman! Worse and worse. I never met
with her equal. Much beyond my hopes. Harriet is disgraced by any
comparison. Oh! what would Frank Churchill say to her, if he were
here? How angry and how diverted he would be! Ah! there I am—
thinking of him directly. Always the first person to be thought of!
How I catch myself out! Frank Churchill comes as regularly into my
mind!"—

All this ran so glibly through her thoughts, that by the time
her father had arranged himself, after the bustle of the Eltons'
departure, and was ready to speak, she was very tolerably capable
of attending.

"Well, my dear," he deliberately began, "considering we never
saw her before, she seems a very pretty sort of young lady; and I
dare say she was very much pleased with you. She speaks a little
too quick. A little quickness of voice there is which rather hurts
the ear. But I believe I am nice; I do not like strange voices; and
nobody speaks like you and poor Miss Taylor. However, she seems a
very obliging, pretty-behaved young lady, and no doubt will make
him a very good wife. Though I think he had better not have
married. I made the best excuses I could for not having been able
to wait on him and Mrs. Elton on this happy occasion; I said that I
hoped I should in the course of the summer. But I ought to have
gone before. Not to wait upon a bride is very remiss. Ah! it shews
what a sad invalid I am! But I do not like the corner into Vicarage
Lane."

"I dare say your apologies were accepted, sir. Mr. Elton knows
you."

"Yes: but a young lady—a bride—I ought to have paid my respects
to her if possible. It was being very deficient."

"But, my dear papa, you are no friend to matrimony; and
therefore why should you be so anxious to pay your respects to a
bride? It ought to be no recommendation to you. It is encouraging
people to marry if you make so much of them."

"No, my dear, I never encouraged any body to marry, but I would
always wish to pay every proper attention to a lady—and a bride,
especially, is never to be neglected. More is avowedly due to her.
A bride, you know, my dear, is always the first in company, let the
others be who they may."

"Well, papa, if this is not encouragement to marry, I do not
know what is. And I should never have expected you to be lending
your sanction to such vanity-baits for poor young ladies."
