
"She must have some motive, more powerful than appears, for
refusing this invitation," was Emma's conclusion. "She must be
under some sort of penance, inflicted either by the Campbells or
herself. There is great fear, great caution, great resolution
somewhere.— She is not to be with the Dixons. The decree is issued
by somebody. But why must she consent to be with the Eltons?—Here
is quite a separate puzzle."

Upon her speaking her wonder aloud on that part of the subject,
before the few who knew her opinion of Mrs. Elton, Mrs. Weston
ventured this apology for Jane.

"We cannot suppose that she has any great enjoyment at the
Vicarage, my dear Emma—but it is better than being always at home.
Her aunt is a good creature, but, as a constant companion, must be
very tiresome. We must consider what Miss Fairfax quits, before we
condemn her taste for what she goes to."

"You are right, Mrs. Weston," said Mr. Knightley warmly, "Miss
Fairfax is as capable as any of us of forming a just opinion of
Mrs. Elton. Could she have chosen with whom to associate, she would
not have chosen her. But (with a reproachful smile at Emma) she
receives attentions from Mrs. Elton, which nobody else pays
her."

Emma felt that Mrs. Weston was giving her a momentary glance;
and she was herself struck by his warmth. With a faint blush, she
presently replied,

"Such attentions as Mrs. Elton's, I should have imagined, would
rather disgust than gratify Miss Fairfax. Mrs. Elton's invitations
I should have imagined any thing but inviting."

"I should not wonder," said Mrs. Weston, "if Miss Fairfax were
to have been drawn on beyond her own inclination, by her aunt's
eagerness in accepting Mrs. Elton's civilities for her. Poor Miss
Bates may very likely have committed her niece and hurried her into
a greater appearance of intimacy than her own good sense would have
dictated, in spite of the very natural wish of a little
change."

Both felt rather anxious to hear him speak again; and after a
few minutes silence, he said,

"Another thing must be taken into consideration too—Mrs. Elton
does not talk to Miss Fairfax as she speaks of her. We all know the
difference between the pronouns he or she and thou, the plainest
spoken amongst us; we all feel the influence of a something beyond
common civility in our personal intercourse with each other— a
something more early implanted. We cannot give any body the
disagreeable hints that we may have been very full of the hour
before. We feel things differently. And besides the operation of
this, as a general principle, you may be sure that Miss Fairfax
awes Mrs. Elton by her superiority both of mind and manner; and
that, face to face, Mrs. Elton treats her with all the respect
which she has a claim to. Such a woman as Jane Fairfax probably
never fell in Mrs. Elton's way before—and no degree of vanity can
prevent her acknowledging her own comparative littleness in action,
if not in consciousness."

"I know how highly you think of Jane Fairfax," said Emma. Little
Henry was in her thoughts, and a mixture of alarm and delicacy made
her irresolute what else to say.

