The kind-hearted, polite old man might then sit down and feel
that he had done his duty, and made every fair lady welcome and
easy.

By this time, the walk in the rain had reached Mrs. Elton, and
her remonstrances now opened upon Jane.

"My dear Jane, what is this I hear?—Going to the post-office in
the rain!—This must not be, I assure you.—You sad girl, how could
you do such a thing?—It is a sign I was not there to take care of
you."

Jane very patiently assured her that she had not caught any
cold.

"Oh! do not tell me. You really are a very sad girl, and do not
know how to take care of yourself.—To the post-office indeed! Mrs.
Weston, did you ever hear the like? You and I must positively exert
our authority."

"My advice," said Mrs. Weston kindly and persuasively, "I
certainly do feel tempted to give. Miss Fairfax, you must not run
such risks.— Liable as you have been to severe colds, indeed you
ought to be particularly careful, especially at this time of year.
The spring I always think requires more than common care. Better
wait an hour or two, or even half a day for your letters, than run
the risk of bringing on your cough again. Now do not you feel that
you had? Yes, I am sure you are much too reasonable. You look as if
you would not do such a thing again."

"Oh! she shall not do such a thing again," eagerly rejoined Mrs.
Elton. "We will not allow her to do such a thing again:"— and
nodding significantly—"there must be some arrangement made, there
must indeed. I shall speak to Mr. E. The man who fetches our
letters every morning (one of our men, I forget his name) shall
inquire for yours too and bring them to you. That will obviate all
difficulties you know; and from us I really think, my dear Jane,
you can have no scruple to accept such an accommodation."

"You are extremely kind," said Jane; "but I cannot give up my
early walk. I am advised to be out of doors as much as I can, I
must walk somewhere, and the post-office is an object; and upon my
word, I have scarcely ever had a bad morning before."

"My dear Jane, say no more about it. The thing is determined,
that is (laughing affectedly) as far as I can presume to determine
any thing without the concurrence of my lord and master. You know,
Mrs. Weston, you and I must be cautious how we express ourselves.
But I do flatter myself, my dear Jane, that my influence is not
entirely worn out. If I meet with no insuperable difficulties
therefore, consider that point as settled."

"Excuse me," said Jane earnestly, "I cannot by any means consent
to such an arrangement, so needlessly troublesome to your servant.
If the errand were not a pleasure to me, it could be done, as it
always is when I am not here, by my grandmama's."

"Oh! my dear; but so much as Patty has to do!—And it is a
kindness to employ our men."
