"Aye, we men are sad fellows. You must take care of yourself,
Mrs. Elton.—This letter tells us—it is a short letter—written in a
hurry, merely to give us notice—it tells us that they are all
coming up to town directly, on Mrs. Churchill's account—she has not
been well the whole winter, and thinks Enscombe too cold for her—
so they are all to move southward without loss of time."

"Indeed!—from Yorkshire, I think. Enscombe is in Yorkshire?"

"Yes, they are about one hundred and ninety miles from London. a
considerable journey."

"Yes, upon my word, very considerable. Sixty-five miles farther
than from Maple Grove to London. But what is distance, Mr. Weston,
to people of large fortune?—You would be amazed to hear how my
brother, Mr. Suckling, sometimes flies about. You will hardly
believe me— but twice in one week he and Mr. Bragge went to London
and back again with four horses."

"The evil of the distance from Enscombe," said Mr. Weston, "is,
that Mrs. Churchill, as we understand, has not been able to leave
the sofa for a week together. In Frank's last letter she
complained, he said, of being too weak to get into her conservatory
without having both his arm and his uncle's! This, you know, speaks
a great degree of weakness—but now she is so impatient to be in
town, that she means to sleep only two nights on the road.—So Frank
writes word. Certainly, delicate ladies have very extraordinary
constitutions, Mrs. Elton. You must grant me that."

"No, indeed, I shall grant you nothing. I Always take the part
of my own sex. I do indeed. I give you notice—You will find me a
formidable antagonist on that point. I always stand up for women—
and I assure you, if you knew how Selina feels with respect to
sleeping at an inn, you would not wonder at Mrs. Churchill's making
incredible exertions to avoid it. Selina says it is quite horror to
her—and I believe I have caught a little of her nicety. She always
travels with her own sheets; an excellent precaution. Does Mrs.
Churchill do the same?"

"Depend upon it, Mrs. Churchill does every thing that any other
fine lady ever did. Mrs. Churchill will not be second to any lady
in the land for"—

Mrs. Elton eagerly interposed with,

"Oh! Mr. Weston, do not mistake me. Selina is no fine lady, I
assure you. Do not run away with such an idea."

"Is not she? Then she is no rule for Mrs. Churchill, who is as
thorough a fine lady as any body ever beheld."

Mrs. Elton began to think she had been wrong in disclaiming so
warmly. It was by no means her object to have it believed that her
sister was not a fine lady; perhaps there was want of spirit in the
pretence of it;—and she was considering in what way she had best
retract, when Mr. Weston went on.
