Emma heard that Frank wrote in the highest spirits of this
arrangement, and seemed most fully to appreciate the blessing of
having two months before him of such near neighbourhood to many
dear friends— for the house was taken for May and June. She was
told that now he wrote with the greatest confidence of being often
with them, almost as often as he could even wish.

Emma saw how Mr. Weston understood these joyous prospects. He
was considering her as the source of all the happiness they
offered. She hoped it was not so. Two months must bring it to the
proof.

Mr. Weston's own happiness was indisputable. He was quite
delighted. It was the very circumstance he could have wished for.
Now, it would be really having Frank in their neighbourhood. What
were nine miles to a young man?—An hour's ride. He would be always
coming over. The difference in that respect of Richmond and London
was enough to make the whole difference of seeing him always and
seeing him never. Sixteen miles—nay, eighteen—it must be full
eighteen to Manchester-street—was a serious obstacle. Were he ever
able to get away, the day would be spent in coming and returning.
There was no comfort in having him in London; he might as well be
at Enscombe; but Richmond was the very distance for easy
intercourse. Better than nearer!

One good thing was immediately brought to a certainty by this
removal,— the ball at the Crown. It had not been forgotten before,
but it had been soon acknowledged vain to attempt to fix a day.
Now, however, it was absolutely to be; every preparation was
resumed, and very soon after the Churchills had removed to
Richmond, a few lines from Frank, to say that his aunt felt already
much better for the change, and that he had no doubt of being able
to join them for twenty-four hours at any given time, induced them
to name as early a day as possible.

Mr. Weston's ball was to be a real thing. A very few to-morrows
stood between the young people of Highbury and happiness.

Mr. Woodhouse was resigned. The time of year lightened the evil
to him. May was better for every thing than February. Mrs. Bates
was engaged to spend the evening at Hartfield, James had due
notice, and he sanguinely hoped that neither dear little Henry nor
dear little John would have any thing the matter with them, while
dear Emma were gone.




