
"Will he, indeed? That will be very bad."

"How much his business engrosses him already is very plain from
the circumstance of his forgetting to inquire for the book you
recommended. He was a great deal too full of the market to think of
any thing else—which is just as it should be, for a thriving man.
What has he to do with books? And I have no doubt that he will
thrive, and be a very rich man in time—and his being illiterate and
coarse need not disturb us."

"I wonder he did not remember the book"—was all Harriet's
answer, and spoken with a degree of grave displeasure which Emma
thought might be safely left to itself. She, therefore, said no
more for some time. Her next beginning was,

"In one respect, perhaps, Mr. Elton's manners are superior to
Mr. Knightley's or Mr. Weston's. They have more gentleness. They
might be more safely held up as a pattern. There is an openness, a
quickness, almost a bluntness in Mr. Weston, which every body likes
in him, because there is so much good-humour with it—but that would
not do to be copied. Neither would Mr. Knightley's downright,
decided, commanding sort of manner, though it suits him very well;
his figure, and look, and situation in life seem to allow it; but
if any young man were to set about copying him, he would not be
sufferable. On the contrary, I think a young man might be very
safely recommended to take Mr. Elton as a model. Mr. Elton is
good-humoured, cheerful, obliging, and gentle. He seems to me to be
grown particularly gentle of late. I do not know whether he has any
design of ingratiating himself with either of us, Harriet, by
additional softness, but it strikes me that his manners are softer
than they used to be. If he means any thing, it must be to please
you. Did not I tell you what he said of you the other day?"

She then repeated some warm personal praise which she had drawn
from Mr. Elton, and now did full justice to; and Harriet blushed
and smiled, and said she had always thought Mr. Elton very
agreeable.

Mr. Elton was the very person fixed on by Emma for driving the
young farmer out of Harriet's head. She thought it would be an
excellent match; and only too palpably desirable, natural, and
probable, for her to have much merit in planning it. She feared it
was what every body else must think of and predict. It was not
likely, however, that any body should have equalled her in the date
of the plan, as it had entered her brain during the very first
evening of Harriet's coming to Hartfield. The longer she considered
it, the greater was her sense of its expediency. Mr. Elton's
situation was most suitable, quite the gentleman himself, and
without low connexions; at the same time, not of any family that
could fairly object to the doubtful birth of Harriet. He had a
comfortable home for her, and Emma imagined a very sufficient
income; for though the vicarage of Highbury was not large, he was
known to have some independent property; and she thought very
highly of him as a good-humoured, well-meaning, respectable young
man, without any deficiency of useful understanding or knowledge of
the world.

She had already satisfied herself that he thought Harriet a
beautiful girl, which she trusted, with such frequent meetings at
Hartfield, was foundation enough on his side; and on Harriet's
there could be little doubt that the idea of being preferred by him
would have all the usual weight and efficacy. And he was really a
very pleasing young man, a young man whom any woman not fastidious
might like. He was reckoned very handsome; his person much admired
in general, though not by her, there being a want of elegance of
feature which she could not dispense with:—but the girl who could
be gratified by a Robert Martin's riding about the country to get
walnuts for her might very well be conquered by Mr. Elton's
admiration.




