


Chapter

3

&#160;


This little explanation with Mr. Knightley gave Emma
considerable pleasure. It was one of the agreeable recollections of
the ball, which she walked about the lawn the next morning to
enjoy.—She was extremely glad that they had come to so good an
understanding respecting the Eltons, and that their opinions of
both husband and wife were so much alike; and his praise of
Harriet, his concession in her favour, was peculiarly gratifying.
The impertinence of the Eltons, which for a few minutes had
threatened to ruin the rest of her evening, had been the occasion
of some of its highest satisfactions; and she looked forward to
another happy result—the cure of Harriet's infatuation.— From
Harriet's manner of speaking of the circumstance before they
quitted the ballroom, she had strong hopes. It seemed as if her
eyes were suddenly opened, and she were enabled to see that Mr.
Elton was not the superior creature she had believed him. The fever
was over, and Emma could harbour little fear of the pulse being
quickened again by injurious courtesy. She depended on the evil
feelings of the Eltons for supplying all the discipline of pointed
neglect that could be farther requisite.—Harriet rational, Frank
Churchill not too much in love, and Mr. Knightley not wanting to
quarrel with her, how very happy a summer must be before her!

She was not to see Frank Churchill this morning. He had told her
that he could not allow himself the pleasure of stopping at
Hartfield, as he was to be at home by the middle of the day. She
did not regret it.

Having arranged all these matters, looked them through, and put
them all to rights, she was just turning to the house with spirits
freshened up for the demands of the two little boys, as well as of
their grandpapa, when the great iron sweep-gate opened, and two
persons entered whom she had never less expected to see
together—Frank Churchill, with Harriet leaning on his arm—actually
Harriet!—A moment sufficed to convince her that something
extraordinary had happened. Harriet looked white and frightened,
and he was trying to cheer her.— The iron gates and the front-door
were not twenty yards asunder;— they were all three soon in the
hall, and Harriet immediately sinking into a chair fainted
away.

A young lady who faints, must be recovered; questions must be
answered, and surprizes be explained. Such events are very
interesting, but the suspense of them cannot last long. A few
minutes made Emma acquainted with the whole.

Miss Smith, and Miss Bickerton, another parlour boarder at Mrs.
Goddard's, who had been also at the ball, had walked out together,
and taken a road, the Richmond road, which, though apparently
public enough for safety, had led them into alarm.—About half a
mile beyond Highbury, making a sudden turn, and deeply shaded by
elms on each side, it became for a considerable stretch very
retired; and when the young ladies had advanced some way into it,
they had suddenly perceived at a small distance before them, on a
broader patch of greensward by the side, a party of gipsies. A
child on the watch, came towards them to beg; and Miss Bickerton,
excessively frightened, gave a great scream, and calling on Harriet
to follow her, ran up a steep bank, cleared a slight hedge at the
top, and made the best of her way by a short cut back to Highbury.
But poor Harriet could not follow. She had suffered very much from
cramp after dancing, and her first attempt to mount the bank
brought on such a return of it as made her absolutely powerless—
and in this state, and exceedingly terrified, she had been obliged
to remain.

How the trampers might have behaved, had the young ladies been
more courageous, must be doubtful; but such an invitation for
attack could not be resisted; and Harriet was soon assailed by half
a dozen children, headed by a stout woman and a great boy, all
clamorous, and impertinent in look, though not absolutely in
word.—More and more frightened, she immediately promised them
money, and taking out her purse, gave them a shilling, and begged
them not to want more, or to use her ill.—She was then able to
walk, though but slowly, and was moving away—but her terror and her
purse were too tempting, and she was followed, or rather
surrounded, by the whole gang, demanding more.

