She had soon afterwards reason to believe that the beginning was
already made, and could not but hope that the gipsy, though she had
told no fortune, might be proved to have made Harriet's.—About a
fortnight after the alarm, they came to a sufficient explanation,
and quite undesignedly. Emma was not thinking of it at the moment,
which made the information she received more valuable. She merely
said, in the course of some trivial chat, "Well, Harriet, whenever
you marry I would advise you to do so and so"—and thought no more
of it, till after a minute's silence she heard Harriet say in a
very serious tone, "I shall never marry."

Emma then looked up, and immediately saw how it was; and after a
moment's debate, as to whether it should pass unnoticed or not,
replied,

"Never marry!—This is a new resolution."

"It is one that I shall never change, however."

After another short hesitation, "I hope it does not proceed
from— I hope it is not in compliment to Mr. Elton?"

"Mr. Elton indeed!" cried Harriet indignantly.—"Oh! no"—and Emma
could just catch the words, "so superior to Mr. Elton!"

She then took a longer time for consideration. Should she
proceed no farther?—should she let it pass, and seem to suspect
nothing?— Perhaps Harriet might think her cold or angry if she did;
or perhaps if she were totally silent, it might only drive Harriet
into asking her to hear too much; and against any thing like such
an unreserve as had been, such an open and frequent discussion of
hopes and chances, she was perfectly resolved.— She believed it
would be wiser for her to say and know at once, all that she meant
to say and know. Plain dealing was always best. She had previously
determined how far she would proceed, on any application of the
sort; and it would be safer for both, to have the judicious law of
her own brain laid down with speed.— She was decided, and thus
spoke—

"Harriet, I will not affect to be in doubt of your meaning. Your
resolution, or rather your expectation of never marrying, results
from an idea that the person whom you might prefer, would be too
greatly your superior in situation to think of you. Is not it
so?"

"Oh! Miss Woodhouse, believe me I have not the presumption to
suppose— Indeed I am not so mad.—But it is a pleasure to me to
admire him at a distance—and to think of his infinite superiority
to all the rest of the world, with the gratitude, wonder, and
veneration, which are so proper, in me especially."

"I am not at all surprized at you, Harriet. The service he
rendered you was enough to warm your heart."

"Service! oh! it was such an inexpressible obligation!— The very
recollection of it, and all that I felt at the time— when I saw him
coming—his noble look—and my wretchedness before. Such a change! In
one moment such a change! From perfect misery to perfect
happiness!"
