"That I am sure you would. Indeed I do you justice, my good
friend. Under that peculiar sort of dry, blunt manner, I know you
have the warmest heart. As I tell Mr. E., you are a thorough
humourist.— Yes, believe me, Knightley, I am fully sensible of your
attention to me in the whole of this scheme. You have hit upon the
very thing to please me."

Mr. Knightley had another reason for avoiding a table in the
shade. He wished to persuade Mr. Woodhouse, as well as Emma, to
join the party; and he knew that to have any of them sitting down
out of doors to eat would inevitably make him ill. Mr. Woodhouse
must not, under the specious pretence of a morning drive, and an
hour or two spent at Donwell, be tempted away to his misery.

He was invited on good faith. No lurking horrors were to upbraid
him for his easy credulity. He did consent. He had not been at
Donwell for two years. "Some very fine morning, he, and Emma, and
Harriet, could go very well; and he could sit still with Mrs.
Weston, while the dear girls walked about the gardens. He did not
suppose they could be damp now, in the middle of the day. He should
like to see the old house again exceedingly, and should be very
happy to meet Mr. and Mrs. Elton, and any other of his
neighbours.—He could not see any objection at all to his, and
Emma's, and Harriet's going there some very fine morning. He
thought it very well done of Mr. Knightley to invite them— very
kind and sensible—much cleverer than dining out.—He was not fond of
dining out."

Mr. Knightley was fortunate in every body's most ready
concurrence. The invitation was everywhere so well received, that
it seemed as if, like Mrs. Elton, they were all taking the scheme
as a particular compliment to themselves.—Emma and Harriet
professed very high expectations of pleasure from it; and Mr.
Weston, unasked, promised to get Frank over to join them, if
possible; a proof of approbation and gratitude which could have
been dispensed with.— Mr. Knightley was then obliged to say that he
should be glad to see him; and Mr. Weston engaged to lose no time
in writing, and spare no arguments to induce him to come.

In the meanwhile the lame horse recovered so fast, that the
party to Box Hill was again under happy consideration; and at last
Donwell was settled for one day, and Box Hill for the next,—the
weather appearing exactly right.

Under a bright mid-day sun, at almost Midsummer, Mr. Woodhouse
was safely conveyed in his carriage, with one window down, to
partake of this al-fresco party; and in one of the most comfortable
rooms in the Abbey, especially prepared for him by a fire all the
morning, he was happily placed, quite at his ease, ready to talk
with pleasure of what had been achieved, and advise every body to
come and sit down, and not to heat themselves.— Mrs. Weston, who
seemed to have walked there on purpose to be tired, and sit all the
time with him, remained, when all the others were invited or
persuaded out, his patient listener and sympathiser.

It was so long since Emma had been at the Abbey, that as soon as
she was satisfied of her father's comfort, she was glad to leave
him, and look around her; eager to refresh and correct her memory
with more particular observation, more exact understanding of a
house and grounds which must ever be so interesting to her and all
her family.

She felt all the honest pride and complacency which her alliance
with the present and future proprietor could fairly warrant, as she
viewed the respectable size and style of the building, its
suitable, becoming, characteristic situation, low and sheltered—
its ample gardens stretching down to meadows washed by a stream, of
which the Abbey, with all the old neglect of prospect, had scarcely
a sight—and its abundance of timber in rows and avenues, which
neither fashion nor extravagance had rooted up.—The house was
larger than Hartfield, and totally unlike it, covering a good deal
of ground, rambling and irregular, with many comfortable, and one
or two handsome rooms.—It was just what it ought to be, and it
looked what it was—and Emma felt an increasing respect for it, as
the residence of a family of such true gentility, untainted in
blood and understanding.—Some faults of temper John Knightley had;
but Isabella had connected herself unexceptionably. She had given
them neither men, nor names, nor places, that could raise a blush.
These were pleasant feelings, and she walked about and indulged
them till it was necessary to do as the others did, and collect
round the strawberry-beds.—The whole party were assembled,
excepting Frank Churchill, who was expected every moment from
Richmond; and Mrs. Elton, in all her apparatus of happiness, her
large bonnet and her basket, was very ready to lead the way in
gathering, accepting, or talking—strawberries, and only
strawberries, could now be thought or spoken of.—"The best fruit in
England— every body's favourite—always wholesome.—These the finest
beds and finest sorts.—Delightful to gather for one's self—the only
way of really enjoying them.—Morning decidedly the best time—never
tired— every sort good—hautboy infinitely superior—no comparison—
the others hardly eatable—hautboys very scarce—Chili preferred—
white wood finest flavour of all—price of strawberries in London—
abundance about Bristol—Maple Grove—cultivation—beds when to be
renewed—gardeners thinking exactly different—no general rule—
gardeners never to be put out of their way—delicious fruit— only
too rich to be eaten much of—inferior to cherries— currants more
refreshing—only objection to gathering strawberries the
stooping—glaring sun—tired to death—could bear it no longer— must
go and sit in the shade."

Such, for half an hour, was the conversation—interrupted only
once by Mrs. Weston, who came out, in her solicitude after her
son-in-law, to inquire if he were come—and she was a little
uneasy.— She had some fears of his horse.

Seats tolerably in the shade were found; and now Emma was
obliged to overhear what Mrs. Elton and Jane Fairfax were talking
of.— A situation, a most desirable situation, was in question. Mrs.
Elton had received notice of it that morning, and was in raptures.
It was not with Mrs. Suckling, it was not with Mrs. Bragge, but in
felicity and splendour it fell short only of them: it was with a
cousin of Mrs. Bragge, an acquaintance of Mrs. Suckling, a lady
known at Maple Grove. Delightful, charming, superior, first
circles, spheres, lines, ranks, every thing—and Mrs. Elton was wild
to have the offer closed with immediately.—On her side, all was
warmth, energy, and triumph—and she positively refused to take her
friend's negative, though Miss Fairfax continued to assure her that
she would not at present engage in any thing, repeating the same
motives which she had been heard to urge before.— Still Mrs. Elton
insisted on being authorised to write an acquiescence by the
morrow's post.—How Jane could bear it at all, was astonishing to
Emma.—She did look vexed, she did speak pointedly—and at last, with
a decision of action unusual to her, proposed a removal.— "Should
not they walk? Would not Mr. Knightley shew them the gardens— all
the gardens?—She wished to see the whole extent."—The pertinacity
of her friend seemed more than she could bear.

It was hot; and after walking some time over the gardens in a
scattered, dispersed way, scarcely any three together, they
insensibly followed one another to the delicious shade of a broad
short avenue of limes, which stretching beyond the garden at an
equal distance from the river, seemed the finish of the pleasure
grounds.— It led to nothing; nothing but a view at the end over a
low stone wall with high pillars, which seemed intended, in their
erection, to give the appearance of an approach to the house, which
never had been there. Disputable, however, as might be the taste of
such a termination, it was in itself a charming walk, and the view
which closed it extremely pretty.—The considerable slope, at nearly
the foot of which the Abbey stood, gradually acquired a steeper
form beyond its grounds; and at half a mile distant was a bank of
considerable abruptness and grandeur, well clothed with wood;— and
at the bottom of this bank, favourably placed and sheltered, rose
the Abbey Mill Farm, with meadows in front, and the river making a
close and handsome curve around it.
