
"With all my heart. I am really tired of exploring so long on
one spot. Come, Jane, take my other arm."

Jane declined it, however, and the husband and wife walked off.
"Happy couple!" said Frank Churchill, as soon as they were out of
hearing:—"How well they suit one another!—Very lucky—marrying as
they did, upon an acquaintance formed only in a public place!—They
only knew each other, I think, a few weeks in Bath! Peculiarly
lucky!— for as to any real knowledge of a person's disposition that
Bath, or any public place, can give—it is all nothing; there can be
no knowledge. It is only by seeing women in their own homes, among
their own set, just as they always are, that you can form any just
judgment. Short of that, it is all guess and luck— and will
generally be ill-luck. How many a man has committed himself on a
short acquaintance, and rued it all the rest of his life!"

Miss Fairfax, who had seldom spoken before, except among her own
confederates, spoke now.

"Such things do occur, undoubtedly."—She was stopped by a cough.
Frank Churchill turned towards her to listen.

"You were speaking," said he, gravely. She recovered her
voice.

"I was only going to observe, that though such unfortunate
circumstances do sometimes occur both to men and women, I cannot
imagine them to be very frequent. A hasty and imprudent attachment
may arise— but there is generally time to recover from it
afterwards. I would be understood to mean, that it can be only
weak, irresolute characters, (whose happiness must be always at the
mercy of chance,) who will suffer an unfortunate acquaintance to be
an inconvenience, an oppression for ever."

He made no answer; merely looked, and bowed in submission; and
soon afterwards said, in a lively tone,

"Well, I have so little confidence in my own judgment, that
whenever I marry, I hope some body will chuse my wife for me. Will
you? (turning to Emma.) Will you chuse a wife for me?—I am sure I
should like any body fixed on by you. You provide for the family,
you know, (with a smile at his father). Find some body for me. I am
in no hurry. Adopt her, educate her."

"And make her like myself."

"By all means, if you can."

