
"Pretty! say beautiful rather. Can you imagine any thing nearer
perfect beauty than Emma altogether—face and figure?"

"I do not know what I could imagine, but I confess that I have
seldom seen a face or figure more pleasing to me than hers. But I
am a partial old friend."

"Such an eye!—the true hazle eye—and so brilliant! regular
features, open countenance, with a complexion! oh! what a bloom of
full health, and such a pretty height and size; such a firm and
upright figure! There is health, not merely in her bloom, but in
her air, her head, her glance. One hears sometimes of a child being
`the picture of health;' now, Emma always gives me the idea of
being the complete picture of grown-up health. She is loveliness
itself. Mr. Knightley, is not she?"

"I have not a fault to find with her person," he replied. "I
think her all you describe. I love to look at her; and I will add
this praise, that I do not think her personally vain. Considering
how very handsome she is, she appears to be little occupied with
it; her vanity lies another way. Mrs. Weston, I am not to be talked
out of my dislike of Harriet Smith, or my dread of its doing them
both harm."

"And I, Mr. Knightley, am equally stout in my confidence of its
not doing them any harm. With all dear Emma's little faults, she is
an excellent creature. Where shall we see a better daughter, or a
kinder sister, or a truer friend? No, no; she has qualities which
may be trusted; she will never lead any one really wrong; she will
make no lasting blunder; where Emma errs once, she is in the right
a hundred times."

"Very well; I will not plague you any more. Emma shall be an
angel, and I will keep my spleen to myself till Christmas brings
John and Isabella. John loves Emma with a reasonable and therefore
not a blind affection, and Isabella always thinks as he does;
except when he is not quite frightened enough about the children. I
am sure of having their opinions with me."

"I know that you all love her really too well to be unjust or
unkind; but excuse me, Mr. Knightley, if I take the liberty (I
consider myself, you know, as having somewhat of the privilege of
speech that Emma's mother might have had) the liberty of hinting
that I do not think any possible good can arise from Harriet
Smith's intimacy being made a matter of much discussion among you.
Pray excuse me; but supposing any little inconvenience may be
apprehended from the intimacy, it cannot be expected that Emma,
accountable to nobody but her father, who perfectly approves the
acquaintance, should put an end to it, so long as it is a source of
pleasure to herself. It has been so many years my province to give
advice, that you cannot be surprized, Mr. Knightley, at this little
remains of office."

"Not at all," cried he; "I am much obliged to you for it. It is
very good advice, and it shall have a better fate than your advice
has often found; for it shall be attended to."

"Mrs. John Knightley is easily alarmed, and might be made
unhappy about her sister."

"Be satisfied," said he, "I will not raise any outcry. I will
keep my ill-humour to myself. I have a very sincere interest in
Emma. Isabella does not seem more my sister; has never excited a
greater interest; perhaps hardly so great. There is an anxiety, a
curiosity in what one feels for Emma. I wonder what will become of
her!"

