"What did Mr. Weston tell you?"—said Emma, still perplexed.

"Oh! he told me all about it; that Jane Fairfax and Mr. Frank
Churchill are to be married, and that they have been privately
engaged to one another this long while. How very odd!"

It was, indeed, so odd; Harriet's behaviour was so extremely
odd, that Emma did not know how to understand it. Her character
appeared absolutely changed. She seemed to propose shewing no
agitation, or disappointment, or peculiar concern in the discovery.
Emma looked at her, quite unable to speak.

"Had you any idea," cried Harriet, "of his being in love with
her?—You, perhaps, might.—You (blushing as she spoke) who can see
into every body's heart; but nobody else—"

"Upon my word," said Emma, "I begin to doubt my having any such
talent. Can you seriously ask me, Harriet, whether I imagined him
attached to another woman at the very time that I was—tacitly, if
not openly— encouraging you to give way to your own feelings?—I
never had the slightest suspicion, till within the last hour, of
Mr. Frank Churchill's having the least regard for Jane Fairfax. You
may be very sure that if I had, I should have cautioned you
accordingly."

"Me!" cried Harriet, colouring, and astonished. "Why should you
caution me?—You do not think I care about Mr. Frank Churchill."

"I am delighted to hear you speak so stoutly on the subject,"
replied Emma, smiling; "but you do not mean to deny that there was
a time—and not very distant either—when you gave me reason to
understand that you did care about him?"

"Him!—never, never. Dear Miss Woodhouse, how could you so
mistake me?" turning away distressed.

"Harriet!" cried Emma, after a moment's pause—"What do you
mean?— Good Heaven! what do you mean?—Mistake you!—Am I to suppose
then?—"

She could not speak another word.—Her voice was lost; and she
sat down, waiting in great terror till Harriet should answer.

Harriet, who was standing at some distance, and with face turned
from her, did not immediately say any thing; and when she did
speak, it was in a voice nearly as agitated as Emma's.
