
"I never should have presumed to think of it at first," said
she, "but for you. You told me to observe him carefully, and let
his behaviour be the rule of mine—and so I have. But now I seem to
feel that I may deserve him; and that if he does chuse me, it will
not be any thing so very wonderful."

The bitter feelings occasioned by this speech, the many bitter
feelings, made the utmost exertion necessary on Emma's side, to
enable her to say on reply,

"Harriet, I will only venture to declare, that Mr. Knightley is
the last man in the world, who would intentionally give any woman
the idea of his feeling for her more than he really does."

Harriet seemed ready to worship her friend for a sentence so
satisfactory; and Emma was only saved from raptures and fondness,
which at that moment would have been dreadful penance, by the sound
of her father's footsteps. He was coming through the hall. Harriet
was too much agitated to encounter him. "She could not compose
herself— Mr. Woodhouse would be alarmed—she had better go;"—with
most ready encouragement from her friend, therefore, she passed off
through another door—and the moment she was gone, this was the
spontaneous burst of Emma's feelings: "Oh God! that I had never
seen her!"

The rest of the day, the following night, were hardly enough for
her thoughts.—She was bewildered amidst the confusion of all that
had rushed on her within the last few hours. Every moment had
brought a fresh surprize; and every surprize must be matter of
humiliation to her.—How to understand it all! How to understand the
deceptions she had been thus practising on herself, and living
under!—The blunders, the blindness of her own head and heart!—she
sat still, she walked about, she tried her own room, she tried the
shrubbery—in every place, every posture, she perceived that she had
acted most weakly; that she had been imposed on by others in a most
mortifying degree; that she had been imposing on herself in a
degree yet more mortifying; that she was wretched, and should
probably find this day but the beginning of wretchedness.

To understand, thoroughly understand her own heart, was the
first endeavour. To that point went every leisure moment which her
father's claims on her allowed, and every moment of involuntary
absence of mind.

How long had Mr. Knightley been so dear to her, as every feeling
declared him now to be? When had his influence, such influence
begun?— When had he succeeded to that place in her affection, which
Frank Churchill had once, for a short period, occupied?—She looked
back; she compared the two—compared them, as they had always stood
in her estimation, from the time of the latter's becoming known to
her— and as they must at any time have been compared by her, had
it— oh! had it, by any blessed felicity, occurred to her, to
institute the comparison.—She saw that there never had been a time
when she did not consider Mr. Knightley as infinitely the superior,
or when his regard for her had not been infinitely the most dear.
She saw, that in persuading herself, in fancying, in acting to the
contrary, she had been entirely under a delusion, totally ignorant
of her own heart—and, in short, that she had never really cared for
Frank Churchill at all!

This was the conclusion of the first series of reflection. This
was the knowledge of herself, on the first question of inquiry,
which she reached; and without being long in reaching it.— She was
most sorrowfully indignant; ashamed of every sensation but the one
revealed to her—her affection for Mr. Knightley.— Every other part
of her mind was disgusting.

With insufferable vanity had she believed herself in the secret
of every body's feelings; with unpardonable arrogance proposed to
arrange every body's destiny. She was proved to have been
universally mistaken; and she had not quite done nothing—for she
had done mischief. She had brought evil on Harriet, on herself, and
she too much feared, on Mr. Knightley.—Were this most unequal of
all connexions to take place, on her must rest all the reproach of
having given it a beginning; for his attachment, she must believe
to be produced only by a consciousness of Harriet's;—and even were
this not the case, he would never have known Harriet at all but for
her folly.

Mr. Knightley and Harriet Smith!—It was a union to distance
every wonder of the kind.—The attachment of Frank Churchill and
Jane Fairfax became commonplace, threadbare, stale in the
comparison, exciting no surprize, presenting no disparity,
affording nothing to be said or thought.—Mr. Knightley and Harriet
Smith!—Such an elevation on her side! Such a debasement on his! It
was horrible to Emma to think how it must sink him in the general
opinion, to foresee the smiles, the sneers, the merriment it would
prompt at his expense; the mortification and disdain of his
brother, the thousand inconveniences to himself.—Could it be?—No;
it was impossible. And yet it was far, very far, from
impossible.—Was it a new circumstance for a man of first-rate
abilities to be captivated by very inferior powers? Was it new for
one, perhaps too busy to seek, to be the prize of a girl who would
seek him?—Was it new for any thing in this world to be unequal,
inconsistent, incongruous—or for chance and circumstance (as second
causes) to direct the human fate?

