


Chapter

13

&#160;


The weather continued much the same all the following morning;
and the same loneliness, and the same melancholy, seemed to reign
at Hartfield—but in the afternoon it cleared; the wind changed into
a softer quarter; the clouds were carried off; the sun appeared; it
was summer again. With all the eagerness which such a transition
gives, Emma resolved to be out of doors as soon as possible. Never
had the exquisite sight, smell, sensation of nature, tranquil,
warm, and brilliant after a storm, been more attractive to her. She
longed for the serenity they might gradually introduce; and on Mr.
Perry's coming in soon after dinner, with a disengaged hour to give
her father, she lost no time ill hurrying into the
shrubbery.—There, with spirits freshened, and thoughts a little
relieved, she had taken a few turns, when she saw Mr. Knightley
passing through the garden door, and coming towards her.—It was the
first intimation of his being returned from London. She had been
thinking of him the moment before, as unquestionably sixteen miles
distant.—There was time only for the quickest arrangement of mind.
She must be collected and calm. In half a minute they were
together. The "How d'ye do's" were quiet and constrained on each
side. She asked after their mutual friends; they were all
well.—When had he left them?—Only that morning. He must have had a
wet ride.—Yes.—He meant to walk with her, she found. "He had just
looked into the dining-room, and as he was not wanted there,
preferred being out of doors."—She thought he neither looked nor
spoke cheerfully; and the first possible cause for it, suggested by
her fears, was, that he had perhaps been communicating his plans to
his brother, and was pained by the manner in which they had been
received.

They walked together. He was silent. She thought he was often
looking at her, and trying for a fuller view of her face than it
suited her to give. And this belief produced another dread. Perhaps
he wanted to speak to her, of his attachment to Harriet; he might
be watching for encouragement to begin.—She did not, could not,
feel equal to lead the way to any such subject. He must do it all
himself. Yet she could not bear this silence. With him it was most
unnatural. She considered—resolved—and, trying to smile, began—

"You have some news to hear, now you are come back, that will
rather surprize you."

"Have I?" said he quietly, and looking at her; "of what
nature?"

"Oh! the best nature in the world—a wedding."

After waiting a moment, as if to be sure she intended to say no
more, he replied,

