


Chapter

16

&#160;


It was a very great relief to Emma to find Harriet as desirous
as herself to avoid a meeting. Their intercourse was painful enough
by letter. How much worse, had they been obliged to meet!

Harriet expressed herself very much as might be supposed,
without reproaches, or apparent sense of ill-usage; and yet Emma
fancied there was a something of resentment, a something bordering
on it in her style, which increased the desirableness of their
being separate.— It might be only her own consciousness; but it
seemed as if an angel only could have been quite without resentment
under such a stroke.

She had no difficulty in procuring Isabella's invitation; and
she was fortunate in having a sufficient reason for asking it,
without resorting to invention.—There was a tooth amiss. Harriet
really wished, and had wished some time, to consult a dentist. Mrs.
John Knightley was delighted to be of use; any thing of ill health
was a recommendation to her—and though not so fond of a dentist as
of a Mr. Wingfield, she was quite eager to have Harriet under her
care.—When it was thus settled on her sister's side, Emma proposed
it to her friend, and found her very persuadable.— Harriet was to
go; she was invited for at least a fortnight; she was to be
conveyed in Mr. Woodhouse's carriage.—It was all arranged, it was
all completed, and Harriet was safe in Brunswick Square.

Now Emma could, indeed, enjoy Mr. Knightley's visits; now she
could talk, and she could listen with true happiness, unchecked by
that sense of injustice, of guilt, of something most painful, which
had haunted her when remembering how disappointed a heart was near
her, how much might at that moment, and at a little distance, be
enduring by the feelings which she had led astray herself.

The difference of Harriet at Mrs. Goddard's, or in London, made
perhaps an unreasonable difference in Emma's sensations; but she
could not think of her in London without objects of curiosity and
employment, which must be averting the past, and carrying her out
of herself.

She would not allow any other anxiety to succeed directly to the
place in her mind which Harriet had occupied. There was a
communication before her, one which she only could be competent to
make— the confession of her engagement to her father; but she would
have nothing to do with it at present.—She had resolved to defer
the disclosure till Mrs. Weston were safe and well. No additional
agitation should be thrown at this period among those she loved—
and the evil should not act on herself by anticipation before the
appointed time.—A fortnight, at least, of leisure and peace of
mind, to crown every warmer, but more agitating, delight, should be
hers.

