"He promised to come to me as soon as he could disengage himself
from Knightley; but he and Knightley are shut up together in deep
consultation.—Mr. E. is Knightley's right hand."

Emma would not have smiled for the world, and only said, "Is Mr.
Elton gone on foot to Donwell?—He will have a hot walk."

"Oh! no, it is a meeting at the Crown, a regular meeting. Weston
and Cole will be there too; but one is apt to speak only of those
who lead.—I fancy Mr. E. and Knightley have every thing their own
way."

"Have not you mistaken the day?" said Emma. "I am almost certain
that the meeting at the Crown is not till to-morrow.—Mr. Knightley
was at Hartfield yesterday, and spoke of it as for Saturday."

"Oh! no, the meeting is certainly to-day," was the abrupt
answer, which denoted the impossibility of any blunder on Mrs.
Elton's side.— "I do believe," she continued, "this is the most
troublesome parish that ever was. We never heard of such things at
Maple Grove."

"Your parish there was small," said Jane.

"Upon my word, my dear, I do not know, for I never heard the
subject talked of."

"But it is proved by the smallness of the school, which I have
heard you speak of, as under the patronage of your sister and Mrs.
Bragge; the only school, and not more than five-and-twenty
children."

"Ah! you clever creature, that's very true. What a thinking
brain you have! I say, Jane, what a perfect character you and I
should make, if we could be shaken together. My liveliness and your
solidity would produce perfection.—Not that I presume to insinuate,
however, that some people may not think you perfection already.—But
hush!— not a word, if you please."

It seemed an unnecessary caution; Jane was wanting to give her
words, not to Mrs. Elton, but to Miss Woodhouse, as the latter
plainly saw. The wish of distinguishing her, as far as civility
permitted, was very evident, though it could not often proceed
beyond a look.

Mr. Elton made his appearance. His lady greeted him with some of
her sparkling vivacity.
