"Do you dare say this?" cried Mr. Knightley. "Do you dare to
suppose me so great a blockhead, as not to know what a man is
talking of?— What do you deserve?"

"Oh! I always deserve the best treatment, because I never put up
with any other; and, therefore, you must give me a plain, direct
answer. Are you quite sure that you understand the terms on which
Mr. Martin and Harriet now are?"

"I am quite sure," he replied, speaking very distinctly, "that
he told me she had accepted him; and that there was no obscurity,
nothing doubtful, in the words he used; and I think I can give you
a proof that it must be so. He asked my opinion as to what he was
now to do. He knew of no one but Mrs. Goddard to whom he could
apply for information of her relations or friends. Could I mention
any thing more fit to be done, than to go to Mrs. Goddard? I
assured him that I could not. Then, he said, he would endeavour to
see her in the course of this day."

"I am perfectly satisfied," replied Emma, with the brightest
smiles, "and most sincerely wish them happy."

"You are materially changed since we talked on this subject
before."

"I hope so—for at that time I was a fool."

"And I am changed also; for I am now very willing to grant you
all Harriet's good qualities. I have taken some pains for your
sake, and for Robert Martin's sake, (whom I have always had reason
to believe as much in love with her as ever,) to get acquainted
with her. I have often talked to her a good deal. You must have
seen that I did. Sometimes, indeed, I have thought you were half
suspecting me of pleading poor Martin's cause, which was never the
case; but, from all my observations, I am convinced of her being an
artless, amiable girl, with very good notions, very seriously good
principles, and placing her happiness in the affections and utility
of domestic life.— Much of this, I have no doubt, she may thank you
for."

"Me!" cried Emma, shaking her head.—"Ah! poor Harriet!"

She checked herself, however, and submitted quietly to a little
more praise than she deserved.

Their conversation was soon afterwards closed by the entrance of
her father. She was not sorry. She wanted to be alone. Her mind was
in a state of flutter and wonder, which made it impossible for her
to be collected. She was in dancing, singing, exclaiming spirits;
and till she had moved about, and talked to herself, and laughed
and reflected, she could be fit for nothing rational.

Her father's business was to announce James's being gone out to
put the horses to, preparatory to their now daily drive to
Randalls; and she had, therefore, an immediate excuse for
disappearing.
