
The joy, the gratitude, the exquisite delight of her sensations
may be imagined. The sole grievance and alloy thus removed in the
prospect of Harriet's welfare, she was really in danger of becoming
too happy for security.—What had she to wish for? Nothing, but to
grow more worthy of him, whose intentions and judgment had been
ever so superior to her own. Nothing, but that the lessons of her
past folly might teach her humility and circumspection in
future.

Serious she was, very serious in her thankfulness, and in her
resolutions; and yet there was no preventing a laugh, sometimes in
the very midst of them. She must laugh at such a close! Such an end
of the doleful disappointment of five weeks back! Such a heart—such
a Harriet!

Now there would be pleasure in her returning—Every thing would
be a pleasure. It would be a great pleasure to know Robert
Martin.

High in the rank of her most serious and heartfelt felicities,
was the reflection that all necessity of concealment from Mr.
Knightley would soon be over. The disguise, equivocation, mystery,
so hateful to her to practise, might soon be over. She could now
look forward to giving him that full and perfect confidence which
her disposition was most ready to welcome as a duty.

In the gayest and happiest spirits she set forward with her
father; not always listening, but always agreeing to what he said;
and, whether in speech or silence, conniving at the comfortable
persuasion of his being obliged to go to Randalls every day, or
poor Mrs. Weston would be disappointed.

They arrived.—Mrs. Weston was alone in the drawing-room:— but
hardly had they been told of the baby, and Mr. Woodhouse received
the thanks for coming, which he asked for, when a glimpse was
caught through the blind, of two figures passing near the
window.

"It is Frank and Miss Fairfax," said Mrs. Weston. "I was just
going to tell you of our agreeable surprize in seeing him arrive
this morning. He stays till to-morrow, and Miss Fairfax has been
persuaded to spend the day with us.—They are coming in, I
hope."

In half a minute they were in the room. Emma was extremely glad
to see him—but there was a degree of confusion—a number of
embarrassing recollections on each side. They met readily and
smiling, but with a consciousness which at first allowed little to
be said; and having all sat down again, there was for some time
such a blank in the circle, that Emma began to doubt whether the
wish now indulged, which she had long felt, of seeing Frank
Churchill once more, and of seeing him with Jane, would yield its
proportion of pleasure. When Mr. Weston joined the party, however,
and when the baby was fetched, there was no longer a want of
subject or animation— or of courage and opportunity for Frank
Churchill to draw near her and say,

"I have to thank you, Miss Woodhouse, for a very kind forgiving
message in one of Mrs. Weston's letters. I hope time has not made
you less willing to pardon. I hope you do not retract what you then
said."

"No, indeed," cried Emma, most happy to begin, "not in the
least. I am particularly glad to see and shake hands with you—and
to give you joy in person."

