"True, true," he answered, warmly. "No, not true on your side.
You can have no superior, but most true on mine.—She is a complete
angel. Look at her. Is not she an angel in every gesture? Observe
the turn of her throat. Observe her eyes, as she is looking up at
my father.— You will be glad to hear (inclining his head, and
whispering seriously) that my uncle means to give her all my aunt's
jewels. They are to be new set. I am resolved to have some in an
ornament for the head. Will not it be beautiful in her dark
hair?"

"Very beautiful, indeed," replied Emma; and she spoke so kindly,
that he gratefully burst out,

"How delighted I am to see you again! and to see you in such
excellent looks!—I would not have missed this meeting for the
world. I should certainly have called at Hartfield, had you failed
to come."

The others had been talking of the child, Mrs. Weston giving an
account of a little alarm she had been under, the evening before,
from the infant's appearing not quite well. She believed she had
been foolish, but it had alarmed her, and she had been within half
a minute of sending for Mr. Perry. Perhaps she ought to be ashamed,
but Mr. Weston had been almost as uneasy as herself.—In ten
minutes, however, the child had been perfectly well again. This was
her history; and particularly interesting it was to Mr. Woodhouse,
who commended her very much for thinking of sending for Perry, and
only regretted that she had not done it. "She should always send
for Perry, if the child appeared in the slightest degree
disordered, were it only for a moment. She could not be too soon
alarmed, nor send for Perry too often. It was a pity, perhaps, that
he had not come last night; for, though the child seemed well now,
very well considering, it would probably have been better if Perry
had seen it."

Frank Churchill caught the name.

"Perry!" said he to Emma, and trying, as he spoke, to catch Miss
Fairfax's eye. "My friend Mr. Perry! What are they saying about Mr.
Perry?—Has he been here this morning?—And how does he travel
now?—Has he set up his carriage?"

Emma soon recollected, and understood him; and while she joined
in the laugh, it was evident from Jane's countenance that she too
was really hearing him, though trying to seem deaf.

"Such an extraordinary dream of mine!" he cried. "I can never
think of it without laughing.—She hears us, she hears us, Miss
Woodhouse. I see it in her cheek, her smile, her vain attempt to
frown. Look at her. Do not you see that, at this instant, the very
passage of her own letter, which sent me the report, is passing
under her eye— that the whole blunder is spread before her—that she
can attend to nothing else, though pretending to listen to the
others?"

Jane was forced to smile completely, for a moment; and the smile
partly remained as she turned towards him, and said in a conscious,
low, yet steady voice,

"How you can bear such recollections, is astonishing to me!—
They will sometimes obtrude—but how you can court them!"

He had a great deal to say in return, and very entertainingly;
but Emma's feelings were chiefly with Jane, in the argument; and on
leaving Randalls, and falling naturally into a comparison of the
two men, she felt, that pleased as she had been to see Frank
Churchill, and really regarding him as she did with friendship, she
had never been more sensible of Mr. Knightley's high superiority of
character. The happiness of this most happy day, received its
completion, in the animated contemplation of his worth which this
comparison produced.
