
"But still, you will be an old maid! and that's so
dreadful!"

"Never mind, Harriet, I shall not be a poor old maid; and it is
poverty only which makes celibacy contemptible to a generous
public! A single woman, with a very narrow income, must be a
ridiculous, disagreeable old maid! the proper sport of boys and
girls, but a single woman, of good fortune, is always respectable,
and may be as sensible and pleasant as any body else. And the
distinction is not quite so much against the candour and common
sense of the world as appears at first; for a very narrow income
has a tendency to contract the mind, and sour the temper. Those who
can barely live, and who live perforce in a very small, and
generally very inferior, society, may well be illiberal and cross.
This does not apply, however, to Miss Bates; she is only too good
natured and too silly to suit me; but, in general, she is very much
to the taste of every body, though single and though poor. Poverty
certainly has not contracted her mind: I really believe, if she had
only a shilling in the world, she would be very likely to give away
sixpence of it; and nobody is afraid of her: that is a great
charm."

"Dear me! but what shall you do? how shall you employ yourself
when you grow old?"

"If I know myself, Harriet, mine is an active, busy mind, with a
great many independent resources; and I do not perceive why I
should be more in want of employment at forty or fifty than
one-and-twenty. Woman's usual occupations of hand and mind will be
as open to me then as they are now; or with no important variation.
If I draw less, I shall read more; if I give up music, I shall take
to carpet-work. And as for objects of interest, objects for the
affections, which is in truth the great point of inferiority, the
want of which is really the great evil to be avoided in not
marrying, I shall be very well off, with all the children of a
sister I love so much, to care about. There will be enough of them,
in all probability, to supply every sort of sensation that
declining life can need. There will be enough for every hope and
every fear; and though my attachment to none can equal that of a
parent, it suits my ideas of comfort better than what is warmer and
blinder. My nephews and nieces!—I shall often have a niece with
me."

"Do you know Miss Bates's niece? That is, I know you must have
seen her a hundred times—but are you acquainted?"

"Oh! yes; we are always forced to be acquainted whenever she
comes to Highbury. By the bye, that is almost enough to put one out
of conceit with a niece. Heaven forbid! at least, that I should
ever bore people half so much about all the Knightleys together, as
she does about Jane Fairfax. One is sick of the very name of Jane
Fairfax. Every letter from her is read forty times over; her
compliments to all friends go round and round again; and if she
does but send her aunt the pattern of a stomacher, or knit a pair
of garters for her grandmother, one hears of nothing else for a
month. I wish Jane Fairfax very well; but she tires me to
death."

They were now approaching the cottage, and all idle topics were
superseded. Emma was very compassionate; and the distresses of the
poor were as sure of relief from her personal attention and
kindness, her counsel and her patience, as from her purse. She
understood their ways, could allow for their ignorance and their
temptations, had no romantic expectations of extraordinary virtue
from those for whom education had done so little; entered into
their troubles with ready sympathy, and always gave her assistance
with as much intelligence as good-will. In the present instance, it
was sickness and poverty together which she came to visit; and
after remaining there as long as she could give comfort or advice,
she quitted the cottage with such an impression of the scene as
made her say to Harriet, as they walked away,

"These are the sights, Harriet, to do one good. How trifling
they make every thing else appear!—I feel now as if I could think
of nothing but these poor creatures all the rest of the day; and
yet, who can say how soon it may all vanish from my mind?"

"Very true," said Harriet. "Poor creatures! one can think of
nothing else."

"And really, I do not think the impression will soon be over,"
said Emma, as she crossed the low hedge, and tottering footstep
which ended the narrow, slippery path through the cottage garden,
and brought them into the lane again. "I do not think it will,"
stopping to look once more at all the outward wretchedness of the
place, and recall the still greater within.

