"Oh! my dear sir, her throat is so much better that I have
hardly any uneasiness about it. Either bathing has been of the
greatest service to her, or else it is to be attributed to an
excellent embrocation of Mr. Wingfield's, which we have been
applying at times ever since August."

"It is not very likely, my dear, that bathing should have been
of use to her—and if I had known you were wanting an embrocation, I
would have spoken to—

"You seem to me to have forgotten Mrs. and Miss Bates," said
Emma, "I have not heard one inquiry after them."

"Oh! the good Bateses—I am quite ashamed of myself—but you
mention them in most of your letters. I hope they are quite well.
Good old Mrs. Bates—I will call upon her to-morrow, and take my
children.—They are always so pleased to see my children.— And that
excellent Miss Bates!—such thorough worthy people!— How are they,
sir?"

"Why, pretty well, my dear, upon the whole. But poor Mrs. Bates
had a bad cold about a month ago."

"How sorry I am! But colds were never so prevalent as they have
been this autumn. Mr. Wingfield told me that he has never known
them more general or heavy—except when it has been quite an
influenza."

"That has been a good deal the case, my dear; but not to the
degree you mention. Perry says that colds have been very general,
but not so heavy as he has very often known them in November. Perry
does not call it altogether a sickly season."

"No, I do not know that Mr. Wingfield considers it very sickly
except—

"Ah! my poor dear child, the truth is, that in London it is
always a sickly season. Nobody is healthy in London, nobody can be.
It is a dreadful thing to have you forced to live there! so far
off!— and the air so bad!"

"No, indeed—we are not at all in a bad air. Our part of London
is very superior to most others!—You must not confound us with
London in general, my dear sir. The neighbourhood of Brunswick
Square is very different from almost all the rest. We are so very
airy! I should be unwilling, I own, to live in any other part of
the town;— there is hardly any other that I could be satisfied to
have my children in: but we are so remarkably airy!—Mr. Wingfield
thinks the vicinity of Brunswick Square decidedly the most
favourable as to air."

"Ah! my dear, it is not like Hartfield. You make the best of it—
but after you have been a week at Hartfield, you are all of you
different creatures; you do not look like the same. Now I cannot
say, that I think you are any of you looking well at present."
