"A sore-throat!—I hope not infectious. I hope not of a putrid
infectious sort. Has Perry seen her? Indeed you should take care of
yourself as well as of your friend. Let me entreat you to run no
risks. Why does not Perry see her?"

Emma, who was not really at all frightened herself,
tranquillised this excess of apprehension by assurances of Mrs.
Goddard's experience and care; but as there must still remain a
degree of uneasiness which she could not wish to reason away, which
she would rather feed and assist than not, she added soon
afterwards—as if quite another subject,

"It is so cold, so very cold—and looks and feels so very much
like snow, that if it were to any other place or with any other
party, I should really try not to go out to-day—and dissuade my
father from venturing; but as he has made up his mind, and does not
seem to feel the cold himself, I do not like to interfere, as I
know it would be so great a disappointment to Mr. and Mrs. Weston.
But, upon my word, Mr. Elton, in your case, I should certainly
excuse myself. You appear to me a little hoarse already, and when
you consider what demand of voice and what fatigues to-morrow will
bring, I think it would be no more than common prudence to stay at
home and take care of yourself to-night."

Mr. Elton looked as if he did not very well know what answer to
make; which was exactly the case; for though very much gratified by
the kind care of such a fair lady, and not liking to resist any
advice of her's, he had not really the least inclination to give up
the visit;— but Emma, too eager and busy in her own previous
conceptions and views to hear him impartially, or see him with
clear vision, was very well satisfied with his muttering
acknowledgment of its being "very cold, certainly very cold," and
walked on, rejoicing in having extricated him from Randalls, and
secured him the power of sending to inquire after Harriet every
hour of the evening.

"You do quite right," said she;—"we will make your apologies to
Mr. and Mrs. Weston."

But hardly had she so spoken, when she found her brother was
civilly offering a seat in his carriage, if the weather were Mr.
Elton's only objection, and Mr. Elton actually accepting the offer
with much prompt satisfaction. It was a done thing; Mr. Elton was
to go, and never had his broad handsome face expressed more
pleasure than at this moment; never had his smile been stronger,
nor his eyes more exulting than when he next looked at her.

"Well," said she to herself, "this is most strange!—After I had
got him off so well, to chuse to go into company, and leave Harriet
ill behind!—Most strange indeed!—But there is, I believe, in many
men, especially single men, such an inclination— such a passion for
dining out—a dinner engagement is so high in the class of their
pleasures, their employments, their dignities, almost their duties,
that any thing gives way to it—and this must be the case with Mr.
Elton; a most valuable, amiable, pleasing young man undoubtedly,
and very much in love with Harriet; but still, he cannot refuse an
invitation, he must dine out wherever he is asked. What a strange
thing love is! he can see ready wit in Harriet, but will not dine
alone for her."

Soon afterwards Mr. Elton quitted them, and she could not but do
him the justice of feeling that there was a great deal of sentiment
in his manner of naming Harriet at parting; in the tone of his
voice while assuring her that he should call at Mrs. Goddard's for
news of her fair friend, the last thing before he prepared for the
happiness of meeting her again, when he hoped to be able to give a
better report; and he sighed and smiled himself off in a way that
left the balance of approbation much in his favour.

After a few minutes of entire silence between them, John
Knightley began with—

"I never in my life saw a man more intent on being agreeable
than Mr. Elton. It is downright labour to him where ladies are
concerned. With men he can be rational and unaffected, but when he
has ladies to please, every feature works."

"Mr. Elton's manners are not perfect," replied Emma; "but where
there is a wish to please, one ought to overlook, and one does
overlook a great deal. Where a man does his best with only moderate
powers, he will have the advantage over negligent superiority.
There is such perfect good-temper and good-will in Mr. Elton as one
cannot but value."
