
Emma wished she had been alone with Mrs. Weston. She should then
have heard more: Mrs. Weston would speak to her, with a degree of
unreserve which she would not hazard with Isabella; and, she really
believed, would scarcely try to conceal any thing relative to the
Churchills from her, excepting those views on the young man, of
which her own imagination had already given her such instinctive
knowledge. But at present there was nothing more to be said. Mr.
Woodhouse very soon followed them into the drawing-room. To be
sitting long after dinner, was a confinement that he could not
endure. Neither wine nor conversation was any thing to him; and
gladly did he move to those with whom he was always
comfortable.

While he talked to Isabella, however, Emma found an opportunity
of saying,

"And so you do not consider this visit from your son as by any
means certain. I am sorry for it. The introduction must be
unpleasant, whenever it takes place; and the sooner it could be
over, the better."

"Yes; and every delay makes one more apprehensive of other
delays. Even if this family, the Braithwaites, are put off, I am
still afraid that some excuse may be found for disappointing us. I
cannot bear to imagine any reluctance on his side; but I am sure
there is a great wish on the Churchills' to keep him to themselves.
There is jealousy. They are jealous even of his regard for his
father. In short, I can feel no dependence on his coming, and I
wish Mr. Weston were less sanguine."

"He ought to come," said Emma. "If he could stay only a couple
of days, he ought to come; and one can hardly conceive a young
man's not having it in his power to do as much as that. A young
woman, if she fall into bad hands, may be teazed, and kept at a
distance from those she wants to be with; but one cannot comprehend
a young man's being under such restraint, as not to be able to
spend a week with his father, if he likes it."

"One ought to be at Enscombe, and know the ways of the family,
before one decides upon what he can do," replied Mrs. Weston. "One
ought to use the same caution, perhaps, in judging of the conduct
of any one individual of any one family; but Enscombe, I believe,
certainly must not be judged by general rules: she is so very
unreasonable; and every thing gives way to her."

"But she is so fond of the nephew: he is so very great a
favourite. Now, according to my idea of Mrs. Churchill, it would be
most natural, that while she makes no sacrifice for the comfort of
the husband, to whom she owes every thing, while she exercises
incessant caprice towards him, she should frequently be governed by
the nephew, to whom she owes nothing at all."

"My dearest Emma, do not pretend, with your sweet temper, to
understand a bad one, or to lay down rules for it: you must let it
go its own way. I have no doubt of his having, at times,
considerable influence; but it may be perfectly impossible for him
to know beforehand when it will be."

Emma listened, and then coolly said, "I shall not be satisfied,
unless he comes."

"He may have a great deal of influence on some points,"
continued Mrs. Weston, "and on others, very little: and among
those, on which she is beyond his reach, it is but too likely, may
be this very circumstance of his coming away from them to visit
us."

