She had not time to know how Mr. Elton took the reproof, so
rapidly did another subject succeed; for Mr. John Knightley now
came into the room from examining the weather, and opened on them
all with the information of the ground being covered with snow, and
of its still snowing fast, with a strong drifting wind; concluding
with these words to Mr. Woodhouse:

"This will prove a spirited beginning of your winter
engagements, sir. Something new for your coachman and horses to be
making their way through a storm of snow."

Poor Mr. Woodhouse was silent from consternation; but every body
else had something to say; every body was either surprized or not
surprized, and had some question to ask, or some comfort to offer.
Mrs. Weston and Emma tried earnestly to cheer him and turn his
attention from his son-in-law, who was pursuing his triumph rather
unfeelingly.

"I admired your resolution very much, sir," said he, "in
venturing out in such weather, for of course you saw there would be
snow very soon. Every body must have seen the snow coming on. I
admired your spirit; and I dare say we shall get home very well.
Another hour or two's snow can hardly make the road impassable; and
we are two carriages; if one is blown over in the bleak part of the
common field there will be the other at hand. I dare say we shall
be all safe at Hartfield before midnight."

Mr. Weston, with triumph of a different sort, was confessing
that he had known it to be snowing some time, but had not said a
word, lest it should make Mr. Woodhouse uncomfortable, and be an
excuse for his hurrying away. As to there being any quantity of
snow fallen or likely to fall to impede their return, that was a
mere joke; he was afraid they would find no difficulty. He wished
the road might be impassable, that he might be able to keep them
all at Randalls; and with the utmost good-will was sure that
accommodation might be found for every body, calling on his wife to
agree with him, that with a little contrivance, every body might be
lodged, which she hardly knew how to do, from the consciousness of
there being but two spare rooms in the house.

"What is to be done, my dear Emma?—what is to be done?" was Mr.
Woodhouse's first exclamation, and all that he could say for some
time. To her he looked for comfort; and her assurances of safety,
her representation of the excellence of the horses, and of James,
and of their having so many friends about them, revived him a
little.

His eldest daughter's alarm was equal to his own. The horror of
being blocked up at Randalls, while her children were at Hartfield,
was full in her imagination; and fancying the road to be now just
passable for adventurous people, but in a state that admitted no
delay, she was eager to have it settled, that her father and Emma
should remain at Randalls, while she and her husband set forward
instantly through all the possible accumulations of drifted snow
that might impede them.

"You had better order the carriage directly, my love," said she;
"I dare say we shall be able to get along, if we set off directly;
and if we do come to any thing very bad, I can get out and walk. I
am not at all afraid. I should not mind walking half the way. I
could change my shoes, you know, the moment I got home; and it is
not the sort of thing that gives me cold."

"Indeed!" replied he. "Then, my dear Isabella, it is the most
extraordinary sort of thing in the world, for in general every
thing does give you cold. Walk home!—you are prettily shod for
walking home, I dare say. It will be bad enough for the
horses."

Isabella turned to Mrs. Weston for her approbation of the plan.
Mrs. Weston could only approve. Isabella then went to Emma; but
Emma could not so entirely give up the hope of their being all able
to get away; and they were still discussing the point, when Mr.
Knightley, who had left the room immediately after his brother's
first report of the snow, came back again, and told them that he
had been out of doors to examine, and could answer for there not
being the smallest difficulty in their getting home, whenever they
liked it, either now or an hour hence. He had gone beyond the
sweep— some way along the Highbury road—the snow was nowhere above
half an inch deep—in many places hardly enough to whiten the
ground; a very few flakes were falling at present, but the clouds
were parting, and there was every appearance of its being soon
over. He had seen the coachmen, and they both agreed with him in
there being nothing to apprehend.

To Isabella, the relief of such tidings was very great, and they
were scarcely less acceptable to Emma on her father's account, who
was immediately set as much at ease on the subject as his nervous
constitution allowed; but the alarm that had been raised could not
be appeased so as to admit of any comfort for him while he
continued at Randalls. He was satisfied of there being no present
danger in returning home, but no assurances could convince him that
it was safe to stay; and while the others were variously urging and
recommending, Mr. Knightley and Emma settled it in a few brief
sentences: thus—
