Contrary to the usual course of things, Mr. Elton's wanting to
pay his addresses to her had sunk him in her opinion. His
professions and his proposals did him no service. She thought
nothing of his attachment, and was insulted by his hopes. He wanted
to marry well, and having the arrogance to raise his eyes to her,
pretended to be in love; but she was perfectly easy as to his not
suffering any disappointment that need be cared for. There had been
no real affection either in his language or manners. Sighs and fine
words had been given in abundance; but she could hardly devise any
set of expressions, or fancy any tone of voice, less allied with
real love. She need not trouble herself to pity him. He only wanted
to aggrandise and enrich himself; and if Miss Woodhouse of
Hartfield, the heiress of thirty thousand pounds, were not quite so
easily obtained as he had fancied, he would soon try for Miss
Somebody else with twenty, or with ten.

But—that he should talk of encouragement, should consider her as
aware of his views, accepting his attentions, meaning (in short),
to marry him!—should suppose himself her equal in connexion or
mind!—look down upon her friend, so well understanding the
gradations of rank below him, and be so blind to what rose above,
as to fancy himself shewing no presumption in addressing her!— It
was most provoking.

Perhaps it was not fair to expect him to feel how very much he
was her inferior in talent, and all the elegancies of mind. The
very want of such equality might prevent his perception of it; but
he must know that in fortune and consequence she was greatly his
superior. He must know that the Woodhouses had been settled for
several generations at Hartfield, the younger branch of a very
ancient family—and that the Eltons were nobody. The landed property
of Hartfield certainly was inconsiderable, being but a sort of
notch in the Donwell Abbey estate, to which all the rest of
Highbury belonged; but their fortune, from other sources, was such
as to make them scarcely secondary to Donwell Abbey itself, in
every other kind of consequence; and the Woodhouses had long held a
high place in the consideration of the neighbourhood which Mr.
Elton had first entered not two years ago, to make his way as he
could, without any alliances but in trade, or any thing to
recommend him to notice but his situation and his civility.— But he
had fancied her in love with him; that evidently must have been his
dependence; and after raving a little about the seeming incongruity
of gentle manners and a conceited head, Emma was obliged in common
honesty to stop and admit that her own behaviour to him had been so
complaisant and obliging, so full of courtesy and attention, as
(supposing her real motive unperceived) might warrant a man of
ordinary observation and delicacy, like Mr. Elton, in fancying
himself a very decided favourite. If she had so misinterpreted his
feelings, she had little right to wonder that he, with
self-interest to blind him, should have mistaken hers.

The first error and the worst lay at her door. It was foolish,
it was wrong, to take so active a part in bringing any two people
together. It was adventuring too far, assuming too much, making
light of what ought to be serious, a trick of what ought to be
simple. She was quite concerned and ashamed, and resolved to do
such things no more.

"Here have I," said she, "actually talked poor Harriet into
being very much attached to this man. She might never have thought
of him but for me; and certainly never would have thought of him
with hope, if I had not assured her of his attachment, for she is
as modest and humble as I used to think him. Oh! that I had been
satisfied with persuading her not to accept young Martin. There I
was quite right. That was well done of me; but there I should have
stopped, and left the rest to time and chance. I was introducing
her into good company, and giving her the opportunity of pleasing
some one worth having; I ought not to have attempted more. But now,
poor girl, her peace is cut up for some time. I have been but half
a friend to her; and if she were not to feel this disappointment so
very much, I am sure I have not an idea of any body else who would
be at all desirable for her;—William Coxe—Oh! no, I could not
endure William Coxe— a pert young lawyer."

She stopt to blush and laugh at her own relapse, and then
resumed a more serious, more dispiriting cogitation upon what had
been, and might be, and must be. The distressing explanation she
had to make to Harriet, and all that poor Harriet would be
suffering, with the awkwardness of future meetings, the
difficulties of continuing or discontinuing the acquaintance, of
subduing feelings, concealing resentment, and avoiding eclat, were
enough to occupy her in most unmirthful reflections some time
longer, and she went to bed at last with nothing settled but the
conviction of her having blundered most dreadfully.

To youth and natural cheerfulness like Emma's, though under
temporary gloom at night, the return of day will hardly fail to
bring return of spirits. The youth and cheerfulness of morning are
in happy analogy, and of powerful operation; and if the distress be
not poignant enough to keep the eyes unclosed, they will be sure to
open to sensations of softened pain and brighter hope.

Emma got up on the morrow more disposed for comfort than she had
gone to bed, more ready to see alleviations of the evil before her,
and to depend on getting tolerably out of it.

It was a great consolation that Mr. Elton should not be really
in love with her, or so particularly amiable as to make it shocking
to disappoint him—that Harriet's nature should not be of that
superior sort in which the feelings are most acute and retentive—
and that there could be no necessity for any body's knowing what
had passed except the three principals, and especially for her
father's being given a moment's uneasiness about it.

These were very cheering thoughts; and the sight of a great deal
of snow on the ground did her further service, for any thing was
welcome that might justify their all three being quite asunder at
present.

The weather was most favourable for her; though Christmas Day,
she could not go to church. Mr. Woodhouse would have been miserable
had his daughter attempted it, and she was therefore safe from
either exciting or receiving unpleasant and most unsuitable ideas.
The ground covered with snow, and the atmosphere in that unsettled
state between frost and thaw, which is of all others the most
unfriendly for exercise, every morning beginning in rain or snow,
and every evening setting in to freeze, she was for many days a
most honourable prisoner. No intercourse with Harriet possible but
by note; no church for her on Sunday any more than on Christmas
Day; and no need to find excuses for Mr. Elton's absenting
himself.
