


Chapter

17

&#160;


Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley were not detained long at Hartfield.
The weather soon improved enough for those to move who must move;
and Mr. Woodhouse having, as usual, tried to persuade his daughter
to stay behind with all her children, was obliged to see the whole
party set off, and return to his lamentations over the destiny of
poor Isabella;—which poor Isabella, passing her life with those she
doated on, full of their merits, blind to their faults, and always
innocently busy, might have been a model of right feminine
happiness.

The evening of the very day on which they went brought a note
from Mr. Elton to Mr. Woodhouse, a long, civil, ceremonious note,
to say, with Mr. Elton's best compliments, "that he was proposing
to leave Highbury the following morning in his way to Bath; where,
in compliance with the pressing entreaties of some friends, he had
engaged to spend a few weeks, and very much regretted the
impossibility he was under, from various circumstances of weather
and business, of taking a personal leave of Mr. Woodhouse, of whose
friendly civilities he should ever retain a grateful sense— and had
Mr. Woodhouse any commands, should be happy to attend to them."

Emma was most agreeably surprized.—Mr. Elton's absence just at
this time was the very thing to be desired. She admired him for
contriving it, though not able to give him much credit for the
manner in which it was announced. Resentment could not have been
more plainly spoken than in a civility to her father, from which
she was so pointedly excluded. She had not even a share in his
opening compliments.—Her name was not mentioned;— and there was so
striking a change in all this, and such an ill-judged solemnity of
leave-taking in his graceful acknowledgments, as she thought, at
first, could not escape her father's suspicion.

It did, however.—Her father was quite taken up with the surprize
of so sudden a journey, and his fears that Mr. Elton might never
get safely to the end of it, and saw nothing extraordinary in his
language. It was a very useful note, for it supplied them with
fresh matter for thought and conversation during the rest of their
lonely evening. Mr. Woodhouse talked over his alarms, and Emma was
in spirits to persuade them away with all her usual
promptitude.

She now resolved to keep Harriet no longer in the dark. She had
reason to believe her nearly recovered from her cold, and it was
desirable that she should have as much time as possible for getting
the better of her other complaint before the gentleman's return.
She went to Mrs. Goddard's accordingly the very next day, to
undergo the necessary penance of communication; and a severe one it
was.— She had to destroy all the hopes which she had been so
industriously feeding—to appear in the ungracious character of the
one preferred— and acknowledge herself grossly mistaken and
mis-judging in all her ideas on one subject, all her observations,
all her convictions, all her prophecies for the last six weeks.

The confession completely renewed her first shame—and the sight
of Harriet's tears made her think that she should never be in
charity with herself again.

