
"In fact," said the reporter, "instead of building a house it
would be more important to build a boat, if by chance we are not
more than a hundred miles from an inhabited coast."

"That is why," returned Harding, "I am going to try this evening
to calculate the latitude of Lincoln Island, and to-morrow, at
midday, I will try to calculate the longitude."

If the engineer had possessed a sextant, an apparatus with which
the angular distance of objects can be measured with great
precision, there would have been no difficulty in the operation.
This evening by the height of the pole, the next day by the passing
of the sun at the meridian, he would obtain the position of the
island. But as they had not one he would have to supply the
deficiency.

Harding then entered the Chimneys. By the light of the fire he
cut two little flat rulers, which he joined together at one end so
as to form a pair of compasses, whose legs could separate or come
together. The fastening was fixed with a strong acacia thorn which
was found in the wood pile. This instrument finished, the engineer
returned to the beach, but as it was necessary to take the height
of the pole from above a clear horizon, that is, a sea horizon, and
as Claw Cape hid the southern horizon, he was obliged to look for a
more suitable station. The best would evidently have been the shore
exposed directly to the south; but the Mercy would have to be
crossed, and that was a difficulty. Harding resolved, in
consequence, to make his observation from Prospect Heights, taking
into consideration its height above the level of the sea—a height
which he intended to calculate next day by a simple process of
elementary geometry.

The settlers, therefore, went to the plateau, ascending the left
bank of the Mercy, and placed themselves on the edge which looked
northwest and southeast, that is, above the curiously-shaped rocks
which bordered the river.

This part of the plateau commanded the heights of the left bank,
which sloped away to the extremity of Claw Cape, and to the
southern side of the island. No obstacle intercepted their gaze,
which swept the horizon in a semi-circle from the cape to Reptile
End. To the south the horizon, lighted by the first rays of the
moon, was very clearly defined against the sky.

At this moment the Southern Cross presented itself to the
observer in an inverted position, the star Alpha marking its base,
which is nearer to the southern pole.

This constellation is not situated as near to the antarctic pole
as the Polar Star is to the arctic pole. The star Alpha is about
twenty-seven degrees from it, but Cyrus Harding knew this and made
allowance for it in his calculation. He took care also to observe
the moment when it passed the meridian below the pole, which would
simplify the operation.

Cyrus Harding pointed one leg of the compasses to the horizon,
the other to Alpha, and the space between the two legs gave him the
angular distance which separated Alpha from the horizon. In order
to fix the angle obtained, he fastened with thorns the two pieces
of wood on a third placed transversely, so that their separation
should be properly maintained.

That done, there was only the angle to calculate by bringing
back the observation to the level of the sea, taking into
consideration the depression of the horizon, which would
necessitate measuring the height of the cliff. The value of this
angle would give the height of Alpha, and consequently that of the
pole above the horizon, that is to say, the latitude of the island,
since the latitude of a point of the globe is always equal to the
height of the pole above the horizon of this point.

