Cyrus Harding had provided himself with a straight stick, twelve
feet long, which he had measured as exactly as possible by
comparing it with his own height, which he knew to a hair. Herbert
carried a plumb-line which Harding had given him, that is to say, a
simple stone fastened to the end of a flexible fiber. Having
reached a spot about twenty feet from the edge of the beach, and
nearly five hundred feet from the cliff, which rose
perpendicularly, Harding thrust the pole two feet into the sand,
and wedging it up carefully, he managed, by means of the
plumb-line, to erect it perpendicularly with the plane of the
horizon.

That done, he retired the necessary distance, when, lying on the
sand, his eye glanced at the same time at the top of the pole and
the crest of the cliff. He carefully marked the place with a little
stick.

Then addressing Herbert—"Do you know the first principles of
geometry?" he asked.

"Slightly, captain," replied Herbert, who did not wish to put
himself forward.

"You remember what are the properties of two similar
triangles?"

"Yes," replied Herbert; "their homologous sides are
proportional."

"Well, my boy, I have just constructed two similar right-angled
triangles; the first, the smallest, has for its sides the
perpendicular pole, the distance which separates the little stick
from the foot of the pole and my visual ray for hypothenuse; the
second has for its sides the perpendicular cliff, the height of
which we wish to measure, the distance which separates the little
stick from the bottom of the cliff, and my visual ray also forms
its hypothenuse, which proves to be prolongation of that of the
first triangle."

"Ah, captain, I understand!" cried Herbert. "As the distance
from the stick to the pole is to the distance from the stick to the
base of the cliff, so is the height of the pole to the height of
the cliff."

"Just so, Herbert," replied the engineer; "and when we have
measured the two first distances, knowing the height of the pole,
we shall only have a sum in proportion to do, which will give us
the height of the cliff, and will save us the trouble of measuring
it directly."

The two horizontal distances were found out by means of the
pole, whose length above the sand was exactly ten feet.

The first distance was fifteen feet between the stick and the
place where the pole was thrust into the sand.
