
"Well then," cried the sailor, "I am quite ready to be
captain—as soon as you can make a craft that's able to keep at
sea!"

"We shall do it, if it is necessary," replied Cyrus Harding.

But while these men, who really hesitated at nothing, were
talking, the hour approached at which the observation was to be
made. What Cyrus Harding was to do to ascertain the passage of the
sun at the meridian of the island, without an instrument of any
sort, Herbert could not guess.

The observers were then about six miles from the Chimneys, not
far from that part of the downs in which the engineer had been
found after his enigmatical preservation. They halted at this place
and prepared for breakfast, for it was half-past eleven. Herbert
went for some fresh water from a stream which ran near, and brought
it back in a jug, which Neb had provided.

During these preparations Harding arranged everything for his
astronomical observation. He chose a clear place on the shore,
which the ebbing tide had left perfectly level. This bed of fine
sand was as smooth as ice, not a grain out of place. It was of
little importance whether it was horizontal or not, and it did not
matter much whether the stick six feet high, which was planted
there, rose perpendicularly. On the contrary, the engineer inclined
it towards the south, that is to say, in the direction of the coast
opposite to the sun, for it must not be forgotten that the settlers
in Lincoln Island, as the island was situated in the Southern
Hemisphere, saw the radiant planet describe its diurnal arc above
the northern, and not above the southern horizon.

Herbert now understood how the engineer was going to proceed to
ascertain the culmination of the sun, that is to say its passing
the meridian of the island or, in other words, determine due south.
It was by means of the shadow cast on the sand by the stick, a way
which, for want of an instrument, would give him a suitable
approach to the result which he wished to obtain.

In fact, the moment when this shadow would reach its minimum of
length would be exactly twelve o'clock, and it would be enough to
watch the extremity of the shadow, so as to ascertain the instant
when, alter having successively diminished, it began to lengthen.
By inclining his stick to the side opposite to the sun, Cyrus
Harding made the shadow longer, and consequently its modifications
would be more easily ascertained. In fact, the longer the needle of
a dial is, the more easily can the movement of its point be
followed. The shadow of the stick was nothing but the needle of a
dial. The moment had come, and Cyrus Harding knelt on the sand, and
with little wooden pegs, which he stuck into the sand, he began to
mark the successive diminutions of the stick's shadow. His
companions, bending over him, watched the operation with extreme
interest. The reporter held his chronometer in his hand, ready to
tell the hour which it marked when the shadow would be at its
shortest. Moreover, as Cyrus Harding was working on the 16th of
April, the day on which the true and the average time are
identical, the hour given by Gideon Spilett would be the true hour
then at Washington, which would simplify the calculation. Meanwhile
as the sun slowly advanced, the shadow slowly diminished, and when
it appeared to Cyrus Harding that it was beginning to increase, he
asked, "What o'clock is it?"

"One minute past five," replied Gideon Spilett directly. They
had now only to calculate the operation. Nothing could be easier.
It could be seen that there existed, in round numbers, a difference
of five hours between the meridian of Washington and that of
Lincoln Island, that is to say, it was midday in Lincoln Island
when it was already five o'clock in the evening in Washington. Now
the sun, in its apparent movement round the earth, traverses one
degree in four minutes, or fifteen degrees an hour. Fifteen degrees
multiplied by five hours give seventy-five degrees.

Then, since Washington is 77deg 3' 11" as much as to say
seventy-seven degrees counted from the meridian of Greenwich which
the Americans take for their starting-point for longitudes
concurrently with the English—it followed that the island must be
situated seventy-seven and seventy-five degrees west of the
meridian of Greenwich, that is to say, on the hundred and
fifty-second degree of west longitude.

Cyrus Harding announced this result to his companions, and
taking into consideration errors of observation, as he had done for
the latitude, he believed he could positively affirm that the
position of Lincoln Island was between the thirty-fifth and the
thirty-seventh parallel, and between the hundred and fiftieth and
the hundred and fifty-fifth meridian to the west of the meridian of
Greenwich.

