
At five o'clock in the evening, Cyrus Harding gave the signal to
halt. They were now outside the forest, at the beginning of the
powerful spurs which supported Mount Franklin towards the west. At
a distance of some hundred feet flowed the Red Creek, and
consequently plenty of fresh water was within their reach.

The camp was soon organized. In less than an hour, on the edge
of the forest, among the trees, a hut of branches interlaced with
creepers, and pasted over with clay, offered a tolerable shelter.
Their geological researches were put off till the next day. Supper
was prepared, a good fire blazed before the hut, the roast turned,
and at eight o'clock, while one of the settlers watched to keep up
the fire, in case any wild beasts should prowl in the neighborhood,
the others slept soundly.

The next day, the 21st of April, Cyrus Harding accompanied by
Herbert, went to look for the soil of ancient formation, on which
he had already discovered a specimen of ore. They found the vein
above ground, near the source of the creek, at the foot of one of
the northeastern spurs. This ore, very rich in iron, enclosed in
its fusible veinstone, was perfectly suited to the mode of
reduction which the engineer intended to employ; that is, the
Catalan method, but simplified, as it is used in Corsica. In fact,
the Catalan method, properly so called, requires the construction
of kilns and crucibles, in which the ore and the coal, placed in
alternate layers, are transformed and reduced, But Cyrus Harding
intended to economize these constructions, and wished simply to
form, with the ore and the coal, a cubic mass, to the center of
which he would direct the wind from his bellows. Doubtless, it was
the proceeding employed by Tubalcain, and the first metallurgists
of the inhabited world. Now that which had succeeded with the
grandson of Adam, and which still yielded good results in countries
which in ore and fuel, could not but succeed with the settlers in
Lincoln Island.

The coal, as well as the ore, was collected without trouble on
the surface of the ground. They first broke the ore into little
pieces, and cleansed them with the hand from the impurities which
soiled their surface. Then coal and ore were arranged in heaps and
in successive layers, as the charcoal-burner does with the wood
which he wishes to carbonize. In this way, under the influence of
the air projected by the blowing-machine, the coal would be
transformed into carbonic acid, then into oxide of carbon, its use
being to reduce the oxide of iron, that is to say, to rid it of the
oxygen.

Thus the engineer proceeded. The bellows of sealskin, furnished
at its extremity with a nozzle of clay, which had been previously
fabricated in the pottery kiln, was established near the heap of
ore. Using the mechanism which consisted of a frame, cords of fiber
and counterpoise, he threw into the mass an abundance of air, which
by raising the temperature also concurred with the chemical
transformation to produce in time pure iron.

The operation was difficult. All the patience, all the ingenuity
of the settlers was needed; but at last it succeeded, and the
result was a lump of iron, reduced to a spongy state, which it was
necessary to shingle and fagot, that is to say, to forge so as to
expel from it the liquefied veinstone. These amateur smiths had, of
course, no hammer; but they were in no worse a situation than the
first metallurgist, and therefore did what, no doubt, he had to
do.

A handle was fixed to the first lump, and was used as a hammer
to forge the second on a granite anvil, and thus they obtained a
coarse but useful metal. At length, after many trials and much
fatigue, on the 25th of April several bars of iron were forged, and
transformed into tools, crowbars, pincers, pickaxes, spades, etc.,
which Pencroft and Neb declared to be real jewels. But the metal
was not yet in its most serviceable state, that is, of steel. Now
steel is a combination of iron and coal, which is extracted, either
from the liquid ore, by taking from it the excess of coal, or from
the iron by adding to it the coal which was wanting. The first,
obtained by the decarburation of the metal, gives natural or
puddled steel; the second, produced by the carburation of the iron,
gives steel of cementation.

It was the last which Cyrus Harding intended to forge, as he
possessed iron in a pure state. He succeeded by heating the metal
with powdered coal in a crucible which had previously been
manufactured from clay suitable for the purpose.

He then worked this steel, which is malleable both when hot or
cold, with the hammer. Neb and Pencroft, cleverly directed, made
hatchets, which, heated red-hot, and plunged suddenly into cold
water, acquired an excellent temper.

Other instruments, of course roughly fashioned, were also
manufactured; blades for planes, axes, hatchets, pieces of steel to
be transformed into saws, chisels; then iron for spades, pickaxes,
hammers, nails, etc. At last, on the 5th of May, the metallic
period ended, the smiths returned to the Chimneys, and new work
would soon authorize them to take a fresh title.

