"What!" said Herbert, "at such a distance from land?"

"Yes, my boy," replied the engineer. "These pirates are bold
sailors as well as formidable enemies, and we must take measures
accordingly."

"Well," replied Pencroft, "we will fortify ourselves against
savages with two legs as well as against savages with four. But,
captain, will it not be best to explore every part of the island
before undertaking anything else?"

"That would be best," added Gideon Spilett.

"Who knows if we might not find on the opposite side one of the
caverns which we have searched for in vain here?"

"That is true," replied the engineer, "but you forget, my
friends, that it will be necessary to establish ourselves in the
neighborhood of a watercourse, and that, from the summit of Mount
Franklin, we could not see towards the west, either stream or
river. Here, on the contrary, we are placed between the Mercy and
Lake Grant, an advantage which must not be neglected. And, besides,
this side, looking towards the east, is not exposed as the other is
to the trade-winds, which in this hemisphere blow from the
northwest."

"Then, captain," replied the sailor, "let us build a house on
the edge of the lake. Neither bricks nor tools are wanting now.
After having been brickmakers, potters, smelters, and smiths, we
shall surely know how to be masons!"

"Yes, my friend; but before coming to any decision we must
consider the matter thoroughly. A natural dwelling would spare us
much work, and would be a surer retreat, for it would be as well
defended against enemies from the interior as those from
outside."

"That is true, Cyrus," replied the reporter, "but we have
already examined all that mass of granite, and there is not a hole,
not a cranny!"

"No, not one!" added Pencroft. "Ah, if we were able to dig out a
dwelling in that cliff, at a good height, so as to be out of the
reach of harm, that would be capital! I can see that on the front
which looks seaward, five or six rooms—"

"With windows to light them!" said Herbert, laughing.
