Cyrus Harding and his companions walked over this new ground
with great care. Bows, arrows, and sticks with sharp iron points
were their only weapons. However, no wild beast showed itself, and
it was probable that these animals frequented rather the thick
forests in the south; but the settlers had the disagreeable
surprise of seeing Top stop before a snake of great size, measuring
from fourteen to fifteen feet in length. Neb killed it by a blow
from his stick. Cyrus Harding examined the reptile, and declared it
not venomous, for it belonged to that species of diamond serpents
which the natives of New South Wales rear. But it was possible that
others existed whose bite was mortal such as the deaf vipers with
forked tails, which rise up under the feet, or those winged snakes,
furnished with two ears, which enable them to proceed with great
rapidity. Top, the first moment of surprise over, began a reptile
chase with such eagerness, that they feared for his safety. His
master called him back directly.

The mouth of the Red Creek, at the place where it entered into
the lake, was soon reached. The explorers recognized on the
opposite shore the point which they had visited on their descent
from Mount Franklin. Cyrus Harding ascertained that the flow of
water into it from the creek was considerable. Nature must
therefore have provided some place for the escape of the overplus.
This doubtless formed a fall, which, if it could be discovered,
would be of great use.

The colonists, walking apart, but not straying far from each
other, began to skirt the edge of the lake, which was very steep.
The water appeared to be full of fish, and Pencroft resolved to
make some fishing-rods, so as to try and catch some.

The northeast point was first to be doubled. It might have been
supposed that the discharge of water was at this place, for the
extremity of the lake was almost on a level with the edge of the
plateau. But no signs of this were discovered, and the colonists
continued to explore the bank, which, after a slight bend,
descended parallel to the shore.

On this side the banks were less woody, but clumps of trees,
here and there, added to the picturesqueness of the country. Lake
Grant was viewed from thence in all its extent, and no breath
disturbed the surface of its waters. Top, in beating the bushes,
put up flocks of birds of different kinds, which Gideon Spilett and
Herbert saluted with arrows. One was hit by the lad, and fell into
some marshy grass. Top rushed forward, and brought a beautiful
swimming bird, of a slate color, short beak, very developed frontal
plate, and wings edged with white. It was a "coot," the size of a
large partridge, belonging to the group of macrodactyls which form
the transition between the order of wading birds and that of
palmipeds. Sorry game, in truth, and its flavor is far from
pleasant. But Top was not so particular in these things as his
masters, and it was agreed that the coot should be for his
supper.

The settlers were now following the eastern bank of the lake,
and they would not be long in reaching the part which they already
knew. The engineer was much surprised at not seeing any indication
of the discharge of water. The reporter and the sailor talked with
him, and he could not conceal his astonishment.

At this moment Top, who had been very quiet till then, gave
signs of agitation. The intelligent animal went backwards and
forwards on the shore, stopped suddenly, and looked at the water,
one paw raised, as if he was pointing at some invisible game; then
he barked furiously, and was suddenly silent.

Neither Cyrus Harding nor his companions had at first paid any
attention to Top's behavior; but the dog's barking soon became so
frequent that the engineer noticed it.

"What is there, Top?" he asked.

The dog bounded towards his master, seeming to be very uneasy,
and then rushed again towards the bank. Then, all at once, he
plunged into the lake.

"Here, Top!" cried Cyrus Harding, who did not like his dog to
venture into the treacherous water.
