
Pencroft attacked the granite, and for half an hour, by the
light of the torches, he made the splinters fly around him. Neb
relieved him, then Spilett took Neb's place.

This work had lasted two hours, and they began to fear that at
this spot the wall would not yield to the pickaxe, when at a last
blow given by Gideon Spilett, the instrument, passing through the
rock, fell outside.

"Hurrah! hurrah!" cried Pencroft.

The wall only measured there three feet in thickness.

Harding applied his eye to the aperture, which overlooked the
ground from a height of eighty feet. Before him was extended the
sea-coast, the islet, and beyond the open sea.

Floods of light entered by this hole, inundating the splendid
cavern and producing a magic effect! On its left side it did not
measure more than thirty feet in height and breadth, but on the
right it was enormous, and its vaulted roof rose to a height of
more than eighty feet.

In some places granite pillars, irregularly disposed, supported
the vaulted roof, as those in the nave of a cathedral, here forming
lateral piers, there elliptical arches, adorned with pointed
moldings, losing themselves in dark bays, amid the fantastic arches
of which glimpses could be caught in the shade, covered with a
profusion of projections formed like so many pendants. This cavern
was a picturesque mixture of all the styles of Byzantine, Roman, or
Gothic architecture ever produced by the hand of man. And yet this
was only the work of nature. She alone had hollowed this fairy
Aihambra in a mass of granite.

The settlers were overwhelmed with admiration. Where they had
only expected to find a narrow cavity, they had found a sort of
marvelous palace, and Neb had taken off his hat, as if he had been
transported into a temple!

Cries of admiration issued from every mouth. Hurrahs resounded,
and the echo was repeated again and again till it died away in the
dark naves.

"Ah, my friends!" exclaimed Cyrus Harding, "when we have lighted
the interior of this place, and have arranged our rooms and
storehouses in the left part, we shall still have this splendid
cavern, which we will make our study and our museum!"

