"By that lazy balloon which is left there doing nothing, and
which looks to me as if it was waiting on purpose for us—"

There was no necessity for the sailor to finish his sentence.
The engineer understood him at once. He seized Pencroft by the arm,
and dragged him to his house. There the sailor developed his
project, which was indeed extremely simple. They risked nothing but
their lives in its execution. The hurricane was in all its
violence, it is true, but so clever and daring an engineer as Cyrus
Harding knew perfectly well how to manage a balloon. Had he himself
been as well acquainted with the art of sailing in the air as he
was with the navigation of a ship, Pencroft would not have
hesitated to set out, of course taking his young friend Herbert
with him; for, accustomed to brave the fiercest tempests of the
ocean, he was not to be hindered on account of the hurricane.

Captain Harding had listened to the sailor without saying a
word, but his eyes shone with satisfaction. Here was the
long-sought-for opportunity—he was not a man to let it pass. The
plan was feasible, though, it must be confessed, dangerous in the
extreme. In the night, in spite of their guards, they might
approach the balloon, slip into the car, and then cut the cords
which held it. There was no doubt that they might be killed, but on
the other hand they might succeed, and without this storm!—Without
this storm the balloon would have started already and the
looked-for opportunity would not have then presented itself.

"I am not alone!" said Harding at last.

"How many people do you wish to bring with you?" asked the
sailor.

"Two; my friend Spilett, and my servant Neb."

"That will be three," replied Pencroft; "and with Herbert and me
five. But the balloon will hold six—"

"That will be enough, we will go," answered Harding in a firm
voice.

This "we" included Spilett, for the reporter, as his friend well
knew, was not a man to draw back, and when the project was
communicated to him he approved of it unreservedly. What astonished
him was, that so simple an idea had not occurred to him before. As
to Neb, he followed his master wherever his master wished to
go.

"This evening, then," said Pencroft, "we will all meet out
there."

"This evening, at ten o'clock," replied Captain Harding; "and
Heaven grant that the storm does not abate before our
departure."
