


Chapter

19

&#160;


The next day, the 22nd of May, the arrangement of their new
dwelling was commenced. In fact, the settlers longed to exchange
the insufficient shelter of the Chimneys for this large and healthy
retreat, in the midst of solid rock, and sheltered from the water
both of the sea and sky. Their former dwelling was not, however, to
be entirely abandoned, for the engineer intended to make a
manufactory of it for important works. Cyrus Harding's first care
was to find out the position of the front of Granite House from the
outside. He went to the beach, and as the pickaxe when it escaped
from the hands of the reporter must have fallen perpendicularly to
the foot of the cliff, the finding it would be sufficient to show
the place where the hole had been pierced in the granite.

The pickaxe was easily found, and the hole could be seen in a
perpendicular line above the spot where it was stuck in the sand.
Some rock pigeons were already flying in and out of the narrow
opening; they evidently thought that Granite House had been
discovered on purpose for them. It was the engineer's intention to
divide the right portion of the cavern into several rooms, preceded
by an entrance passage, and to light it by means of five windows
and a door, pierced in the front. Pencroft was much pleased with
the five windows, but he could not understand the use of the door,
since the passage offered a natural staircase, through which it
would always be easy to enter Granite House.

"My friend," replied Harding, "if it is easy for us to reach our
dwelling by this passage, it will be equally easy for others
besides us. I mean, on the contrary, to block up that opening, to
seal it hermetically, and, if it is necessary, to completely hide
the entrance by making a dam, and thus causing the water of the
lake to rise."

"And how shall we get in?" asked the sailor.

"By an outside ladder," replied Cyrus Harding, "a rope ladder,
which, once drawn up, will render access to our dwelling
impossible."

"But why so many precautions?" asked Pencroft. "As yet we have
seen no dangerous animals. As to our island being inhabited by
natives, I don't believe it!"

