It has been seen that Lincoln Island, although its inhabitants
had as yet only explored a small portion of it, already contributed
to almost all their wants. It was probable that if they hunted into
its most secret recesses, in all the wooded part between the Mercy
and Reptile Point, they would find new treasures.

The settlers in Lincoln Island had still one privation. There
was no want of meat, nor of vegetable products; those ligneous
roots which they had found, when subjected to fermentation, gave
them an acid drink, which was preferable to cold water; they also
made sugar, without canes or beet- roots, by collecting the liquor
which distils from the "acer saceharinum," a son of maple-tree,
which flourishes in all the temperate zones, and of which the
island possessed a great number; they made a very agreeable tea by
employing the herbs brought from the warren; lastly, they had an
abundance of salt, the only mineral which is used in food&#160;…
but bread was wanting.

Perhaps in time the settlers could replace this want by some
equivalent, it was possible that they might find the sago or the
breadfruit tree among the forests of the south, but they had not as
yet met with these precious trees. However, Providence came
directly to their aid, in an infinitesimal proportion it is true,
but Cyrus Harding, with all his intelligence, all his ingenuity,
would never have been able to produce that which, by the greatest
chance, Herbert one day found in the lining of his waistcoat, which
he was occupied in setting to rights.

On this day, as it was raining in torrents, the settlers were
assembled in the great hall in Granite House, when the lad cried
out all at once,—

"Look here, captain—A grain of corn!"

And he showed his companions a grain—a single grain—which from a
hole in his pocket had got into the lining of his waistcoat.

The presence of this grain was explained by the fact that
Herbert, when at Richmond, used to feed some pigeons, of which
Pencroft had made him a present.

"A grain of corn?" said the engineer quickly.

"Yes, captain; but one, only one!"

"Well, my boy," said Pencroft, laughing, "we're getting on
capitally, upon my word! What shall we make with one grain of
corn?"

"We will make bread of it," replied Cyrus Harding.
