Their shortest way was to cross the Mercy on the ice, which then
covered it.

"But," as the engineer justly observed, "that could not take the
place of a regular bridge!" So, the construction of a regular
bridge was noted in the list of future works.

It was the first time that the settlers had set foot on the
right bank of the Mercy, and ventured into the midst of those
gigantic and superb coniferae now sprinkled over with snow.

But they had not gone half a mile when from a thicket a whole
family of quadrupeds, who had made a home there, disturbed by Top,
rushed forth into the open country.

"Ah! I should say those are foxes!" cried Herbert, when he saw
the troop rapidly decamping.

They were foxes, but of a very large size, who uttered a sort of
barking, at which Top seemed to be very much astonished, for he
stopped short in the chase, and gave the swift animals time to
disappear.

The dog had reason to be surprised, as he did not know Natural
History. But, by their barking, these foxes, with reddish-gray
hair, black tails terminating in a white tuft, had betrayed their
origin. So Herbert was able, without hesitating, to give them their
real name of "Arctic foxes." They are frequently met with in Chile,
in the Falkland Islands, and in all parts of America traversed by
the thirtieth and fortieth parallels. Herbert much regretted that
Top had not been able to catch one of these carnivora.

"Are they good to eat?" asked Pencroft, who only regarded the
representatives of the fauna in the island from one special point
of view.

"No," replied Herbert; "but zoologists have not yet found out if
the eye of these foxes is diurnal or nocturnal, or whether it is
correct to class them in the genus dog, properly so called."

Harding could not help smiling on hearing the lad's reflection,
which showed a thoughtful mind. As to the sailor, from the moment
when he found that the foxes were not classed in the genus eatable,
they were nothing to him. However, when a poultry-yard was
established at Granite House, he observed that it would be best to
take some precautions against a probable visit from these
four-legged plunderers, and no one disputed this.

After having turned the point, the settlers saw a long beach
washed by the open sea. It was then eight o'clock in the morning.
The sky was very clear, as it often is after prolonged cold; but
warmed by their walk, neither Harding nor his companions felt the
sharpness of the atmosphere too severely. Besides there was no
wind, which made it much more bearable. A brilliant sun, but
without any calorific action, was just issuing from the ocean. The
sea was as tranquil and blue as that of a Mediterranean gulf, when
the sky is clear. Claw Cape, bent in the form of a yataghan,
tapered away nearly four miles to the southeast. To the left the
edge of the marsh was abruptly ended by a little point. Certainly,
in this part of Union Bay, which nothing sheltered from the open
sea, not even a sandbank, ships beaten by the east winds would have
found no shelter. They perceived by the tranquillity of the sea, in
which no shallows troubled the waters, by its uniform color, which
was stained by no yellow shades, by the absence of even a reef,
that the coast was steep and that the ocean there covered a deep
abyss. Behind in the west, but at a distance of four miles, rose
the first trees of the forests of the Far West. They might have
believed themselves to be on the desolate coast of some island in
the Antarctic regions which the ice had invaded. The colonists
halted at this place for breakfast. A fire of brushwood and dried
seaweed was lighted, and Neb prepared the breakfast of cold meat,
to which he added some cups of Oswego tea.
