"And the great number of animals which still inhabit it," added
Herbert.

"Yes, my boy," replied the engineer, "and you furnish me with an
argument to support my theory. It is certain, after what we have
seen, that animals are numerous in this island, and what is more
strange, that the species are extremely varied. There is a reason
for that, and to me it is that Lincoln Island may have formerly
been a part of some vast continent which had gradually sunk below
the Pacific."

"Then, some fine day," said Pencroft, who did not appear to be
entirely convinced, "the rest of this ancient continent may
disappear in its turn, and there will be nothing between America
and Asia."

"Yes," replied Harding, "there will be new continents which
millions and millions of animalculae are building at this
moment."

"And what are these masons?" asked Pencroft.

"Coral insects," replied Cyrus Harding. "By constant work they
made the island of Clermont-Tonnerre, and numerous other coral
islands in the Pacific Ocean. Forty-seven millions of these insects
are needed to weigh a grain, and yet, with the sea-salt they
absorb, the solid elements of water which they assimilate, these
animalculae produce limestone, and this limestone forms enormous
submarine erections, of which the hardness and solidity equal
granite. Formerly, at the first periods of creation, nature
employing fire, heaved up the land, but now she entrusts to these
microscopic creatures the task of replacing this agent, of which
the dynamic power in the interior of the globe has evidently
diminished—which is proved by the number of volcanoes on the
surface of the earth, now actually extinct. And I believe that
centuries succeeding to centuries, and insects to insects, this
Pacific may one day be changed into a vast continent, which new
generations will inhabit and civilize in their turn."

"That will take a long time," said Pencroft.

"Nature has time for it," replied the engineer.

"But what would be the use of new continents?" asked Herbert.
"It appears to me that the present extent of habitable countries is
sufficient for humanity. Yet nature does nothing uselessly."

"Nothing uselessly, certainly," replied the engineer, "but this
is how the necessity of new continents for the future, and exactly
on the tropical zone occupied by the coral islands, may be
explained. At least to me this explanation appears plausible."

"We are listening, captain," said Herbert.
