
"This is my idea: philosophers generally admit that some day our
globe will end, or rather that animal and vegetable life will no
longer be possible, because of the intense cold to which it will be
subjected. What they are not agreed upon, is the cause of this
cold. Some think that it will arise from the falling of the
temperature, which the sun will experience alter millions of years;
others, from the gradual extinction of the fires in the interior of
our globe, which have a greater influence on it than is generally
supposed. I hold to this last hypothesis, grounding it on the fact
that the moon is really a cold star, which is no longer habitable,
although the sun continues to throw on its surface the same amount
of heat. If, then, the moon has become cold, it is because the
interior fires to which, as do all the stars of the stellar world,
it owes its origin, are completely extinct. Lastly, whatever may be
the cause, our globe will become cold some day, but this cold will
only operate gradually. What will happen, then? The temperate
zones, at a more or less distant period, will not be more habitable
than the polar regions now are. Then the population of men, as well
as the animals, will flow towards the latitudes which are more
directly under the solar influence. An immense emigration will take
place. Europe, Central Asia, North America, will gradually be
abandoned, as well as Australasia and the lower parts of South
America. The vegetation will follow the human emigration. The flora
will retreat towards the Equator at the same time as the fauna. The
central parts of South America and Africa will be the continents
chiefly inhabited. The Laplanders and the Samoides will find the
climate of the polar regions on the shores of the Mediterranean.
Who can say, that at this period, the equatorial regions will not
be too small, to contain and nourish terrestrial humanity? Now, may
not provident nature, so as to give refuge to all the vegetable and
animal emigration, be at present laying the foundation of a new
continent under the Equator, and may she not have entrusted these
insects with the construction of it? I have often thought of all
these things, my friends, and I seriously believe that the aspect
of our globe will some day be completely changed; that by the
raising of new continents the sea will cover the old, and that, in
future ages, a Columbus will go to discover the islands of
Chimborazo, of the Himalayas, or of Mont Blanc, remains of a
submerged America, Asia, and Europe. Then these new continents will
become, in their turn, uninhabitable; heat will die away, as does
the heat from a body when the soul has left it; and life will
disappear from the globe, if not for ever, at least for a period.
Perhaps then, our spheroid will rest— will be left to death—to
revive some day under superior conditions! But all that, my
friends, is the secret of the Author of all things; and beginning
by the work of the insects, I have perhaps let myself be carried
too far, in investigating the secrets of the future.

"My dear Cyrus," replied Spilett, "these theories are prophecies
to me, and they will be accomplished some day."

"That is the secret of God," said the engineer.

"All that is well and good," then said Pencroft, who had
listened with all his might, "but will you tell me, captain, if
Lincoln Island has been made by your insects?"

"No," replied Harding; "it is of a purely volcanic origin."

"Then it will disappear some day?"

"That is probable.

"I hope we won't be here then."

"No, don't be uneasy, Pencroft; we shall not be here then, as we
have no wish to die here, and hope to get away some time."

"In the meantime," replied Gideon Spilett, "let us establish
ourselves here as if forever. There is no use in doing things by
halves."

