
At the same time as the coal, the store of wood was renewed at
Granite House, and they profited by the current of the Mercy having
again become free, to float down several rafts. They could see that
the cold period was not ended.

A visit was also paid to the Chimneys, and the settlers could
not but congratulate themselves on not having been living there
during the hurricane. The sea had left unquestionable traces of its
ravages. Sweeping over the islet, it had furiously assailed the
passages, half filling them with sand, while thick beds of seaweed
covered the rocks. While Neb, Herbert, and Pencroft hunted or
collected wood, Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett busied themselves
in putting the Chimneys to rights, and they found the forge and the
bellows almost unhurt, protected as they had been from the first by
the heaps of sand.

The store of fuel had not been made uselessly. The settlers had
not done with the rigorous cold. It is known that, in the Northern
Hemisphere, the month of February is principally distinguished by
rapid fallings of the temperature. It is the same in the Southern
Hemisphere, and the end of the month of August, which is the
February of North America, does not escape this climatic law.

About the 25th, after another change from snow to rain, the wind
shifted to the southeast, and the cold became, suddenly, very
severe. According to the engineer's calculation, the mercurial
column of a Fahrenheit thermometer would not have marked less than
eight degrees below zero, and this intense cold, rendered still
more painful by a sharp gale, lasted for several days. The
colonists were again shut up in Granite House, and as it was
necessary to hermetically seal all the openings of the facade, only
leaving a narrow passage for renewing the air, the consumption of
candles was considerable. To economize them, the cavern was often
only lighted by the blazing hearths, on which fuel was not spared.
Several times, one or other of the settlers descended to the beach
in the midst of ice which the waves heaped up at each tide, but
they soon climbed up again to Granite House, and it was not without
pain and difficulty that their hands could hold to the rounds of
the ladder. In consequence of the intense cold, their fingers felt
as if burned when they touched the rounds. To occupy the leisure
hours, which the tenants of Granite House now had at their
disposal, Cyrus Harding undertook an operation which could be
performed indoors.

We know that the settlers had no other sugar at their disposal
than the liquid substance which they drew from the maple, by making
deep incisions in the tree. They contented themselves with
collecting this liquor in jars and employing it in this state for
different culinary purposes, and the more so, as on growing old,
this liquid began to become white and to be of a syrupy
consistence.

But there was something better to be made of it, and one day
Cyrus Harding announced that they were going to turn into
refiners.

"Refiners!" replied Pencroft. "That is rather a warm trade, I
think."

"Very warm," answered the engineer.

"Then it will be seasonable!" said the sailor.

This word refining need not awake in the mind thoughts of an
elaborate manufactory with apparatus and numerous workmen. No! to
crystallize this liquor, only an extremely easy operation is
required. Placed on the fire in large earthen pots, it was simply
subjected to evaporation, and soon a scum arose to its surface. As
soon as this began to thicken, Neb carefully removed it with a
wooden spatula; this accelerated the evaporation, and at the same
time prevented it from contracting an empyreumatic flavor.

