"And that a bullet," added Gideon Spilett, "wounded, though not
mortally, this little animal."

"That is unquestionable," said Cyrus Harding, "and these are the
deductions which must be drawn from this incident: that the island
was inhabited before our arrival, or that men have landed here
within three months. Did these men arrive here voluntarily or
involuntarily, by disembarking on the shore or by being wrecked?
This point can only be cleared up later. As to what they were,
Europeans or Malays, enemies or friends of our race, we cannot
possibly guess; and if they still inhabit the island, or if they
have left it, we know not. But these questions are of too much
importance to be allowed to remain long unsettled."

"No! a hundred times no! a thousand times no!" cried the sailor,
springing up from the table. "There are no other men than ourselves
on Lincoln Island! By my faith! The island isn't large and if it
had been inhabited, we should have seen some of the inhabitants
long before this!"

"In fact, the contrary would be very astonishing," said
Herbert.

"But it would be much more astonishing, I should think, observed
the reporter, "if this peccary had been born with a bullet in its
inside!"

"At least," said Neb seriously, "if Pencroft has not had—"

"Look here, Neb," burst out Pencroft. "Do you think I could have
a bullet in my jaw for five or six months without finding it out?
Where could it be hidden?" he asked, opening his mouth to show the
two-and-thirty teeth with which it was furnished. "Look well, Neb,
and if you find one hollow tooth in this set, I will let you pull
out half a dozen!"

"Neb's supposition is certainly inadmissible," replied Harding,
who, notwithstanding the gravity of his thoughts, could not
restrain a smile. "It is certain that a gun has been fired in the
island, within three months at most. But I am inclined to think
that the people who landed on this coast were only here a very
short time ago, or that they just touched here; for if, when we
surveyed the island from the summit of Mount Franklin, it had been
inhabited, we should have seen them or we should have been seen
ourselves. It is therefore, probable that within only a few weeks
castaways have been thrown by a storm on some part of the coast.
However that may be, it is of consequence to us to have this point
settled."

"I think that we should act with caution," said the
reporter.

"Such is my advice," replied Cyrus Harding, "for it is to be
feared that Malay pirates have landed on the island!"

"Captain," asked the sailor, "would it not be a good plan,
before setting out, to build a canoe in which we could either
ascend the river, or, if we liked, coast round the inland? It will
not do to be unprovided."
