"The idea is good," replied the reporter; "but could you climb
to the top of those giants?"

"I can at least try," replied Herbert.

The light and active boy then sprang on the first branches, the
arrangement of which made the ascent of the kauri easy, and in a
few minutes he arrived at the summit, which emerged from the
immense plain of verdure.

From this elevated situation his gaze extended over all the
southern portion of the island, from Claw Cape on the southeast, to
Reptile End on the southwest. To the northwest rose Mount Franklin,
which concealed a great part of the horizon.

But Herbert, from the height of his observatory, could examine
all the yet unknown portion of the island, which might have given
shelter to the strangers whose presence they suspected.

The lad looked attentively. There was nothing in sight on the
sea, not a sail, neither on the horizon nor near the island.
However, as the bank of trees hid the shore, it was possible that a
vessel, especially if deprived of her masts, might lie close to the
land and thus be invisible to Herbert.

Neither in the forests of the Far West was anything to be seen.
The wood formed an impenetrable screen, measuring several square
miles, without a break or an opening. It was impossible even to
follow the course of the Mercy, or to ascertain in what part of the
mountain it took its source. Perhaps other creeks also ran towards
the west, but they could not be seen.

But at last, if all indication of an encampment escaped
Herbert's sight could he not even catch a glimpse of smoke, the
faintest trace of which would be easily discernible in the pure
atmosphere?

For an instant Herbert thought he could perceive a slight smoke
in the west, but a more attentive examination showed that he was
mistaken. He strained his eyes in every direction, and his sight
was excellent. No, decidedly there was nothing there.

Herbert descended to the foot of the kauri, and the two
sportsmen returned to Granite House. There Cyrus Harding listened
to the lad's account, shook his head and said nothing. It was very
evident that no decided opinion could be pronounced on this
question until after a complete exploration of the island.

Two days after—the 28th of October—another incident occurred,
for which an explanation was again required.
