"But your boat leaks rather, Pencroft."

"That's nothing, Neb," replied the sailor; "the wood will get
seasoned. In two days there won't be a single leak, and our boat
will have no more water in her than there is in the stomach of a
drunkard. Jump in!"

They were soon all seated, and Pencroft shoved off. The weather
was magnificent, the sea as calm as if its waters were contained
within the narrow limits of a lake. Thus the boat could proceed
with as much security as if it was ascending the tranquil current
of the Mercy.

Neb took one of the oars, Herbert the other, and Pencroft
remained in the stern in order to use the scull.

The sailor first crossed the channel, and steered close to the
southern point of the islet. A light breeze blew from the south. No
roughness was found either in the channel or the green sea. A long
swell, which the canoe scarcely felt, as it was heavily laden,
rolled regularly over the surface of the water. They pulled out
about half a mile distant from the shore, that they might have a
good view of Mount Franklin.

Pencroft afterwards returned towards the mouth of the river. The
boat then skirted the shore, which, extending to the extreme point,
hid all Tadorn's Fens.

This point, of which the distance was increased by the
irregularity of the coast, was nearly three miles from the Mercy.
The settlers resolved to go to its extremity, and only go beyond it
as much as was necessary to take a rapid survey of the coast as far
as Claw Cape.

The canoe followed the windings of the shore, avoiding the rocks
which fringed it, and which the rising tide began to cover. The
cliff gradually sloped away from the mouth of the river to the
point. This was formed of granite reeks, capriciously distributed,
very different from the cliff at Prospect Heights, and of an
extremely wild aspect. It might have been said that an immense
cartload of rocks had been emptied out there. There was no
vegetation on this sharp promontory, which projected two miles from
the forest, and it thus represented a giant's arm stretched out
from a leafy sleeve.

The canoe, impelled by the two oars, advanced without
difficulty. Gideon Spilett, pencil in one hand and notebook in the
other, sketched the coast in bold strokes. Neb, Herbert, and
Pencroft chatted, while examining this part of their domain, which
was new to them, and, in proportion as the canoe proceeded towards
the south, the two Mandible Capes appeared to move, and surround
Union Bay more closely.

As to Cyrus Harding, he did not speak; he simply gazed, and by
the mistrust which his look expressed, it appeared that he was
examining some strange country.

In the meantime, after a voyage of three-quarters of an hour,
the canoe reached the extremity of the point, and Pencroft was
preparing to return, when Herbert, rising, pointed to a black
object, saying,—
