"Yes," replied Neb, "and besides, Top is there."

The sailor, observing the heavy surf on the shore, shook his
head.

The engineer had disappeared to the north of the shore, and
nearly half a mile from the place where the castaways had landed.
The nearest point of the beach he could reach was thus fully that
distance off.

It was then nearly six o'clock. A thick fog made the night very
dark. The castaways proceeded toward the north of the land on which
chance had thrown them, an unknown region, the geographical
situation of which they could not even guess. They were walking
upon a sandy soil, mingled with stones, which appeared destitute of
any sort of vegetation. The ground, very unequal and rough, was in
some places perfectly riddled with holes, making walking extremely
painful. From these holes escaped every minute great birds of
clumsy flight, which flew in all directions. Others, more active,
rose in flocks and passed in clouds over their heads. The sailor
thought he recognized gulls and cormorants, whose shrill cries rose
above the roaring of the sea.

From time to time the castaways stopped and shouted, then
listened for some response from the ocean, for they thought that if
the engineer had landed, and they had been near to the place, they
would have heard the barking of the dog Top, even should Harding
himself have been unable to give any sign of existence. They
stopped to listen, but no sound arose above the roaring of the
waves and the dashing of the surf. The little band then continued
their march forward, searching into every hollow of the shore.

After walking for twenty minutes, the four castaways were
suddenly brought to a standstill by the sight of foaming billows
close to their feet. The solid ground ended here. They found
themselves at the extremity of a sharp point on which the sea broke
furiously.

"It is a promontory," said the sailor; "we must retrace our
steps, holding towards the right, and we shall thus gain the
mainland."

"But if he is there," said Neb, pointing to the ocean, whose
waves shone of a snowy white in the darkness. "Well, let us call
again," and all uniting their voices, they gave a vigorous shout,
but there came no reply. They waited for a lull, then began again;
still no reply.

The castaways accordingly returned, following the opposite side
of the promontory, over a soil equally sandy and rugged. However,
Pencroft observed that the shore was more equal, that the ground
rose, and he declared that it was joined by a long slope to a hill,
whose massive front he thought that he could see looming
indistinctly through the mist. The birds were less numerous on this
part of the shore; the sea was also less tumultuous, and they
observed that the agitation of the waves was diminished. The noise
of the surf was scarcely heard. This side of the promontory
evidently formed a semicircular bay, which the sharp point
sheltered from the breakers of the open sea. But to follow this
direction was to go south, exactly opposite to that part of the
coast where Harding might have landed. After a walk of a mile and a
half, the shore presented no curve which would permit them to
return to the north. This promontory, of which they had turned the
point, must be attached to the mainland. The castaways, although
their strength was nearly exhausted, still marched courageously
forward, hoping every moment to meet with a sudden angle which
would set them in the first direction. What was their
disappointment, when, after trudging nearly two miles, having
reached an elevated point composed of slippery rocks, they found
themselves again stopped by the sea.

"We are on an islet," said Pencroft, "and we have surveyed it
from one extremity to the other."

The sailor was right; they had been thrown, not on a continent,
not even on an island, but on an islet which was not more than two
miles in length, with even a less breadth.
