"Evidently," replied Spilett.

"But what's in this chest?" cried Pencroft, with very natural
impatience. "What's in this chest? It is shut up, and nothing to
open it with! Well, perhaps a stone—"

And the sailor, raising a heavy block, was about to break in one
of the sides of the chest, when the engineer arrested his hand.

"Pencroft," said he, "can you restrain your impatience for one
hour only?"

But, captain, just think! Perhaps there is everything we want in
there!"

"We shall find that out, Pencroft," replied the engineer; "but
trust to me, and do not break the chest, which may be useful to us.
We must convey it to Granite House, where we can open it easily,
and without breaking it. It is quite prepared for a voyage; and
since it has floated here, it may just as well float to the mouth
of the river."

"You are right, captain, and I was wrong, as usual," replied the
sailor.

The engineer's advice was good. In fact, the canoe probably
would not have been able to contain the articles possibly enclosed
in the chest, which doubtless was heavy, since two empty barrels
were required to buoy it up. It was, therefore, much better to tow
it to the beach at Granite House.

And now, whence had this chest come? That was the important
question. Cyrus Harding and his companions looked attentively
around them, and examined the shore for several hundred steps. No
other articles or pieces of wreck could be found. Herbert and Neb
climbed a high rock to survey the sea, but there was nothing in
sight—neither a dismasted vessel nor a ship under sail.

However, there was no doubt that there had been a wreck. Perhaps
this incident was connected with that of the bullet? Perhaps
strangers had landed on another part of the island? Perhaps they
were still there? But the thought which came naturally to the
settlers was, that these strangers could not be Malay pirates, for
the chest was evidently of American or European make.

All the party returned to the chest, which was of an unusually
large size. It was made of oak wood, very carefully closed and
covered with a thick hide, which was secured by copper nails. The
two great barrels, hermetically sealed, but which sounded hollow
and empty, were fastened to its sides by strong ropes, knotted with
a skill which Pencroft directly pronounced sailors alone could
exhibit. It appeared to be in a perfect state of preservation,
which was explained by the fact that it had stranded on a sandy
beach, and not among rocks. They had no doubt whatever, on
examining it carefully, that it had not been long in the water, and
that its arrival on this coast was recent. The water did not appear
to have penetrated to the inside, and the articles which it
contained were no doubt uninjured.
