It is useless to add that Pencroft, Herbert, and Neb, thus
armed, were at the summit of their happiness, although Cyrus
Harding made them promise not to fire a shot unless it was
necessary.

At six in the morning the canoe put off from the shore; all had
embarked, including Top, and they proceeded to the mouth of the
Mercy.

The tide had begun to come up half an hour before. For several
hours, therefore, there would be a current, which it was well to
profit by, for later the ebb would make it difficult to ascend the
river. The tide was already strong, for in three days the moon
would be full, and it was enough to keep the boat in the center of
the current, where it floated swiftly along between the high banks
without its being necessary to increase its speed by the aid of the
oars. In a few minutes the explorers arrived at the angle formed by
the Mercy and exactly at the place where, seven months before,
Pencroft had made his first raft of wood.

After this sudden angle the river widened and flowed under the
shade of great evergreen firs.

The aspect of the banks was magnificent. Cyrus Harding and his
companions could not but admire the lovely effects so easily
produced by nature with water and trees. As they advanced the
forest element diminished. On the right bank of the river grew
magnificent specimens of the ulmaceae tribe, the precious elm, so
valuable to builders, and which withstands well the action of
water. Then there were numerous groups belonging to the same
family, among others one in particular, the fruit of which produces
a very useful oil. Further on, Herbert remarked the lardizabala, a
twining shrub which, when bruised in water, furnishes excellent
cordage; and two or three ebony trees of a beautiful black, crossed
with capricious veins.

From time to time, in certain places where the landing was easy,
the canoe was stopped, when Gideon Spilett, Herbert, and Pencroft,
their guns in their hands, and preceded by Top, jumped on shore.
Without expecting game, some useful plant might be met with, and
the young naturalist was delighted with discovering a sort of wild
spinach, belonging to the order of chenopodiaceae, and numerous
specimens of cruciferae, belonging to the cabbage tribe, which it
would certainly be possible to cultivate by transplanting. There
were cresses, horseradish, turnips, and lastly, little branching
hairy stalks, scarcely more than three feet high, which produced
brownish grains.

Do you know what this plant is?" asked Herbert of the
sailor.

"Tobacco!" cried Pencroft, who evidently had never seen his
favorite plant except in the bowl of his pipe.

"No, Pencroft," replied Herbert; "this is not tobacco, it is
mustard."

"Mustard be hanged!" returned the sailor; "but if by chance you
happen to come across a tobacco-plant, my boy, pray don't scorn
that!"

"We shall find it some day!" said Gideon Spilett.
