


Chapter

4

&#160;


It was six o' clock in the morning when the settlers, after a
hasty breakfast, set out to reach by the shortest way, the western
coast of the island. And how long would it take to do this? Cyrus
Harding had said two hours, but of course that depended on the
nature of the obstacles they might meet with As it was probable
that they would have to cut a path through the grass, shrubs, and
creepers, they marched axe in hand, and with guns also ready,
wisely taking warning from the cries of the wild beasts heard in
the night.

The exact position of the encampment could be determined by the
bearing of Mount Franklin, and as the volcano arose in the north at
a distance of less than three miles, they had only to go straight
towards the southwest to reach the western coast. They set out,
having first carefully secured the canoe. Pencroft and Neb carried
sufficient provision for the little band for at least two days. It
would not thus be necessary to hunt. The engineer advised his
companions to refrain from firing, that their presence might not be
betrayed to any one near the shore. The first hatchet blows were
given among the brushwood in the midst of some mastic-trees, a
little above the cascade; and his compass in his hand, Cyrus
Harding led the way.

The forest here was composed for the most part of trees which
had already been met with near the lake and on Prospect Heights.
There were deodars, Douglas firs, casuarinas, gum trees, eucalypti,
hibiscus, cedars, and other trees, generally of a moderate size,
for their number prevented their growth.

Since their departure, the settlers had descended the slopes
which constituted the mountain system of the island, on to a dry
soil, but the luxuriant vegetation of which indicated it to be
watered either by some subterranean marsh or by some stream.
However, Cyrus Harding did not remember having seen, at the time of
his excursion to the crater, any other watercourses but the Red
Creek and the Mercy.

During the first part of their excursion, they saw numerous
troops of monkeys who exhibited great astonishment at the sight of
men, whose appearance was so new to them. Gideon Spilett jokingly
asked whether these active and merry quadrupeds did not consider
him and his companions as degenerate brothers.

And certainly, pedestrians, hindered at each step by bushes,
caught by creepers, barred by trunks of trees, did not shine beside
those supple animals, who, bounding from branch to branch, were
hindered by nothing on their course. The monkeys were numerous, but
happily they did not manifest any hostile disposition.

