
There was, however, nothing to show that a shipwreck had taken
place recently. It is true that, as Gideon Spilett observed, any
remains of it might have drifted out to sea, and they must not take
it for granted that because they could find no traces of it, a ship
had not been castaway on the coast.

The reporter's argument was just, and besides, the incident of
the bullet proved that a shot must have been fired in Lincoln
Island within three months.

It was already five o'clock, and there were still two miles
between the settlers and the extremity of the Serpentine Peninsula.
It was evident that after having reached Reptile End, Harding and
his companions would not have time to return before dark to their
encampment near the source of the Mercy. It would therefore be
necessary to pass the night on the promontory. But they had no lack
of provisions, which was lucky, for there were no animals on the
shore, though birds, on the contrary, abound—jacamars, couroucous,
tragopans, grouse, lories, parrots, cockatoos, pheasants, pigeons,
and a hundred others. There was not a tree without a nest, and not
a nest which was not full of flapping wings.

Towards seven o'clock the weary explorers arrived at Reptile
End. Here the seaside forest ended, and the shore resumed the
customary appearance of a coast, with rocks, reefs, and sands. It
was possible that something might be found here, but darkness came
on, and the further exploration had to be put off to the next
day.

Pencroft and Herbert hastened on to find a suitable place for
their camp. Among the last trees of the forest of the Far West, the
boy found several thick clumps of bamboos.

"Good," said he; "this is a valuable discovery."

"Valuable?" returned Pencroft.

"Certainly," replied Herbert. "I may say, Pencroft, that the
bark of the bamboo, cut into flexible laths, is used for making
baskets; that this bark, mashed into a paste, is used for the
manufacture of Chinese paper; that the stalks furnish, according to
their size, canes and pipes and are used for conducting water; that
large bamboos make excellent material for building, being light and
strong, and being never attacked by insects. I will add that by
sawing the bamboo in two at the joint, keeping for the bottom the
part of the transverse film which forms the joint, useful cups are
obtained, which are much in use among the Chinese. No! you don't
care for that. But—"

"But what?"

"But I can tell you, if you are ignorant of it, that in India
these bamboos are eaten like asparagus."

