Neb's companions had watched his daring attempt with painful
anxiety, and when he was out of sight, they fixed their attention
on the land where their hope of safety lay, while eating some
shell-fish with which the sand was strewn. It was a wretched
repast, but still it was better than nothing. The opposite coast
formed one vast bay, terminating on the south by a very sharp
point, which was destitute of all vegetation, and was of a very
wild aspect. This point abutted on the shore in a grotesque outline
of high granite rocks. Towards the north, on the contrary, the bay
widened, and a more rounded coast appeared, trending from the
southwest to the northeast, and terminating in a slender cape. The
distance between these two extremities, which made the bow of the
bay, was about eight miles. Half a mile from the shore rose the
islet, which somewhat resembled the carcass of a gigantic whale.
Its extreme breadth was not more than a quarter of a mile.

Opposite the islet, the beach consisted first of sand, covered
with black stones, which were now appearing little by little above
the retreating tide. The second level was separated by a
perpendicular granite cliff, terminated at the top by an unequal
edge at a height of at least 300 feet. It continued thus for a
length of three miles, ending suddenly on the right with a
precipice which looked as if cut by the hand of man. On the left,
above the promontory, this irregular and jagged cliff descended by
a long slope of conglomerated rocks till it mingled with the ground
of the southern point. On the upper plateau of the coast not a tree
appeared. It was a flat tableland like that above Cape Town at the
Cape of Good Hope, but of reduced proportions; at least so it
appeared seen from the islet. However, verdure was not wanting to
the right beyond the precipice. They could easily distinguish a
confused mass of great trees, which extended beyond the limits of
their view. This verdure relieved the eye, so long wearied by the
continued ranges of granite. Lastly, beyond and above the plateau,
in a northwesterly direction and at a distance of at least seven
miles, glittered a white summit which reflected the sun's rays. It
was that of a lofty mountain, capped with snow.

The question could not at present be decided whether this land
formed an island, or whether it belonged to a continent. But on
beholding the convulsed masses heaped up on the left, no geologist
would have hesitated to give them a volcanic origin, for they were
unquestionably the work of subterranean convulsions.

Gideon Spilett, Pencroft, and Herbert attentively examined this
land, on which they might perhaps have to live many long years; on
which indeed they might even die, should it be out of the usual
track of vessels, as was likely to be the case.

"Well," asked Herbert, "what do you say, Pencroft?"

"There is some good and some bad, as in everything," replied the
sailor. "We shall see. But now the ebb is evidently making. In
three hours we will attempt the passage, and once on the other
side, we will try to get out of this scrape, and I hope may find
the captain." Pencroft was not wrong in his anticipations. Three
hours later at low tide, the greater part of the sand forming the
bed of the channel was uncovered. Between the islet and the coast
there only remained a narrow channel which would no doubt be easy
to cross.

About ten o'clock, Gideon Spilett and his companions stripped
themselves of their clothes, which they placed in bundles on their
heads, and then ventured into the water, which was not more than
five feet deep. Herbert, for whom it was too deep, swam like a
fish, and got through capitally. All three arrived without
difficulty on the opposite shore. Quickly drying themselves in the
sun, they put on their clothes, which they had preserved from
contact with the water, and sat down to take counsel together what
to do next.




