
And, at this moment, as if to bear witness to the truth of the
sailor's words, two or three quadrumana showed themselves at the
windows, from which they had pushed back the shutters, and saluted
the real proprietors of the place with a thousand hideous
grimaces.

"I knew that it was only a joke," cried Pencroft; "but one of
the jokers shall pay the penalty for the rest."

So saying, the sailor, raising his piece, took a rapid aim at
one of the monkeys and fired. All disappeared, except one who fell
mortally wounded on the beach. This monkey, which was of a large
size, evidently belonged to the first order of the quadrumana.
Whether this was a chimpanzee, an orangoutang, or a gorilla, he
took rank among the anthropoid apes, who are so called from their
resemblance to the human race. However, Herbert declared it to be
an orangoutang.

"What a magnificent beast!" cried Neb.

"Magnificent, if you like," replied Pencroft; "but still I do
not see how we are to get into our house."

"Herbert is a good marksman," said the reporter, "and his bow is
here. He can try again."

"Why, these apes are so cunning," returned Pencroft; "they won't
show themselves again at the windows and so we can't kill them; and
when I think of the mischief they may do in the rooms and
storehouse—"

"Have patience," replied Harding; "these creatures cannot keep
us long at bay."

"I shall not be sure of that till I see them down here," replied
the sailor. "And now, captain, do you know how many dozens of these
fellows are up there?"

It was difficult to reply to Pencroft, and as for the young boy
making another attempt, that was not easy; for the lower part of
the ladder had been drawn again into the door, and when another
pull was given, the line broke and the ladder remained firm. The
case was really perplexing. Pencroft stormed. There was a comic
side to the situation, but he did not think it funny at all. It was
certain that the settlers would end by reinstating themselves in
their domicile and driving out the intruders, but when and how?
this is what they were not able to say.

