Two hours passed, during which the apes took care not to show
themselves, but they were still there, and three or four times a
nose or a paw was poked out at the door or windows, and was
immediately saluted by a gun- shot.

"Let us hide ourselves," at last said the engineer. "Perhaps the
apes will think we have gone quite away and will show themselves
again. Let Spilett and Herbert conceal themselves behind those
rocks and fire on all that may appear."

The engineer's orders were obeyed, and while the reporter and
the lad, the best marksmen in the colony, posted themselves in a
good position, but out of the monkeys' sight, Neb, Pencroft, and
Cyrus climbed the plateau and entered the forest in order to kill
some game, for it was now time for breakfast and they had no
provisions remaining.

In half an hour the hunters returned with a few rock pigeons,
which they roasted as well as they could. Not an ape had appeared.
Gideon Spilett and Herbert went to take their share of the
breakfast, leaving Top to watch under the windows. They then,
having eaten, returned to their post.

Two hours later, their situation was in no degree improved. The
quadrumana gave no sign of existence, and it might have been
supposed that they had disappeared; but what seemed more probable
was that, terrified by the death of one of their companions, and
frightened by the noise of the firearms, they had retreated to the
back part of the house or probably even into the store-room. And
when they thought of the valuables which this storeroom contained,
the patience so much recommended by the engineer, fast changed into
great irritation, and there certainly was room for it.

"Decidedly it is too bad," said the reporter; "and the worst of
it is, there is no way of putting an end to it."

"But we must drive these vagabonds out somehow," cried the
sailor. "We could soon get the better of them, even if there are
twenty of the rascals; but for that, we must meet them hand to
hand. Come now, is there no way of getting at them?"

"Let us try to enter Granite House by the old opening at the
lake," replied the engineer.

"Oh!" shouted the sailor, "and I never thought of that."

This was in reality the only way by which to penetrate into
Granite House so as to fight with and drive out the intruders. The
opening was, it is true, closed up with a wall of cemented stones,
which it would be necessary to sacrifice, but that could easily be
rebuilt. Fortunately, Cyrus Harding had not as yet effected his
project of hiding this opening by raising the waters of the lake,
for the operation would then have taken some time.

It was already past twelve o'clock, when the colonists, well
armed and provided with picks and spades, left the Chimneys, passed
beneath the windows of Granite House, after telling Top to remain
at his post, and began to ascend the left bank of the Mercy, so as
to reach Prospect Heights.
