
The lad was not joking in saying this, for he knew how this
intelligent race could be turned to account.

The settlers then approached the ape and gazed at it
attentively. He belonged to the family of anthropoid apes, of which
the facial angle is not much inferior to that of the Australians
and Hottentots. It was an orangoutang, and as such, had neither the
ferocity of the gorilla, nor the stupidity of the baboon. It is to
this family of the anthropoid apes that so many characteristics
belong which prove them to be possessed of an almost human
intelligence. Employed in houses, they can wait at table, sweep
rooms, brush clothes, clean boots, handle a knife, fork, and spoon
properly, and even drink wine&#160;… doing everything as well as
the best servant that ever walked upon two legs. Buffon possessed
one of these apes, who served him for a long time as a faithful and
zealous servant.

The one which had been seized in the hall of Granite House was a
great fellow, six feet high, with an admirably poportioned frame, a
broad chest, head of a moderate size, the facial angle reaching
sixty-five degrees, round skull, projecting nose, skin covered with
soft glossy hair, in short, a fine specimen of the anthropoids. His
eyes, rather smaller than human eyes, sparkled with intelligence;
his white teeth glittered under his mustache, and he wore a little
curly brown beard.

"A handsome fellow!" said Pencroft; "if we only knew his
language, we could talk to him."

"But, master," said Neb, "are you serious? Are we going to take
him as a servant?"

"Yes, Neb," replied the engineer, smiling. "But you must not be
jealous."

"And I hope he will make an excellent servant," added Herbert.
"He appears young, and will be easy to educate, and we shall not be
obliged to use force to subdue him, nor draw his teeth, as is
sometimes done. He will soon grow fond of his masters if they are
kind to him."

"And they will be," replied Pencroft, who had forgotten all his
rancor against "the jokers."

Then, approaching the orang,—

"Well, old boy!" he asked, "how are you?"

