But though there might be no inconvenience in the enclosure
being so far from Granite House, it would not be the same with the
poultry-yard, to which Neb called the attention of the colonists.
It was indeed necessary that the birds should be close within reach
of the cook, and no place appeared more favorable for the
establishment of the said poultry-yard than that portion of the
banks of the lake which was close to the old opening.

Water-birds would prosper there as well as others, and the
couple of tinamous taken in their last excursion would be the first
to be domesticated.

The next day, the 3rd of November, the new works were begun by
the construction of the bridge, and all hands were required for
this important task. Saws, hatchets, and hammers were shouldered by
the settlers, who, now transformed into carpenters, descended to
the shore.

There Pencroft observed,—

"Suppose, that during our absence, Master Jup takes it into his
head to draw up the ladder which he so politely returned to us
yesterday?"

"Let us tie its lower end down firmly," replied Cyrus
Harding.

This was done by means of two stakes securely fixed in the sand.
Then the settlers, ascending the left bank of the Mercy, soon
arrived at the angle formed by the river.

There they halted, in order to ascertain if the bridge could be
thrown across. The place appeared suitable.

In fact, from this spot, to Port Balloon, discovered the day
before on the southern coast, there was only a distance of three
miles and a half, and from the bridge to the Port, it would be easy
to make a good cart-road which would render the communication
between Granite House and the south of the island extremely
easy.

Cyrus Harding now imparted to his companions a scheme for
completely isolating Prospect Heights so as to shelter it from the
attacks both of quadrupeds and quadrumana. In this way, Granite
House, the Chimneys, the poultry-yard, and all the upper part of
the plateau which was to be used for cultivation, would be
protected against the depredations of animals. Nothing could be
easier than to execute this project, and this is how the engineer
intended to set to work.

The plateau was already defended on three sides by
water-courses, either artificial or natural. On the northwest, by
the shores of Lake Grant, from the entrance of the passage to the
breach made in the banks of the lake for the escape of the
water.
