
On the north, from this breach to the sea, by the new
water-course which had hollowed out a bed for itself across the
plateau and shore, above and below the fall, and it would be enough
to dig the bed of this creek a little deeper to make it
impracticable for animals, on all the eastern border by the sea
itself, from the mouth of the aforesaid creek to the mouth of the
Mercy.

Lastly, on the south, from the mouth to the turn of the Mercy
where the bridge was to be established.

The western border of the plateau now remained between the turn
of the river and the southern angle of the lake, a distance of
about a mile, which was open to all comers. But nothing could be
easier than to dig a broad deep ditch, which could be filled from
the lake, and the overflow of which would throw itself by a rapid
fall into the bed of the Mercy. The level of the lake would, no
doubt, be somewhat lowered by this fresh discharge of its waters,
but Cyrus Harding had ascertained that the volume of water in the
Red Creek was considerable enough to allow of the execution of this
project.

"So then," added the engineer, "Prospect Heights will become a
regular island, being surrounded with water on all sides, and only
communicating with the rest of our domain by the bridge which we
are about to throw across the Mercy, the two little bridges already
established above and below the fall; and, lastly, two other little
bridges which must be constructed, one over the canal which I
propose to dig, the other across to the left bank of the Mercy.
Now, if these bridges can be raised at will, Prospect Heights will
be guarded from any surprise."

The bridge was the most urgent work. Trees were selected, cut
down, stripped of their branches, and cut into beams, joists, and
planks. The end of the bridge which rested on the right bank of the
Mercy was to be firm, but the other end on the left bank was to be
movable, so that it might be raised by means of a counterpoise, as
some canal bridges are managed.

This was certainly a considerable work, and though it was
skillfully conducted, it took some time, for the Mercy at this
place was eighty feet wide. It was therefore necessary to fix piles
in the bed of the river so as to sustain the floor of the bridge
and establish a pile-driver to act on the tops of these piles,
which would thus form two arches and allow the bridge to support
heavy loads.

Happily there was no want of tools with which to shape the wood,
nor of iron-work to make it firm, nor of the ingenuity of a man who
had a marvelous knowledge of the work, nor lastly, the zeal of his
companions, who in seven months had necessarily acquired great
skill in the use of their tools; and it must be said that not the
least skilful was Gideon Spilett, who in dexterity almost equaled
the sailor himself. "Who would ever have expected so much from a
newspaper man!" thought Pencroft.

The construction of the Mercy bridge lasted three weeks of
regular hard work. They even breakfasted on the scene of their
labors, and the weather being magnificent, they only returned to
Granite House to sleep.

During this period it may be stated that Master Jup grew more
accustomed to his new masters, whose movements he always watched
with very inquisitive eyes. However, as a precautionary measure,
Pencroft did not as yet allow him complete liberty, rightly wishing
to wait until the limits of the plateau should be settled by the
projected works. Top and Jup were good friends and played willingly
together, but Jup did everything solemnly.

On the 20th of November the bridge was finished. The movable
part, balanced by the counterpoise, swung easily, and only a slight
effort was needed to rise it; between its hinge and the last
cross-bar on which it rested when closed, there existed a space of
twenty feet, which was sufficiently wide to prevent any animals
from crossing.

