
They had also a variety of different beverages, and so long as
they did not demand wine, the most hard to please would have had no
reason to complain. To the Oswego tea, and the fermented liquor
extracted from the roots of the dragonnier, Harding had added a
regular beer, made from the young shoots of the spruce-fir, which,
after having been boiled and fermented, made that agreeable drink
called by the Anglo-Americans spring- beer.

Towards the end of the summer, the poultry-yard was possessed of
a couple of fine bustards, which belonged to the houbara species,
characterized by a sort of feathery mantle; a dozen shovelers,
whose upper mandible was prolonged on each side by a membraneous
appendage; and also some magnificent cocks, similar to the
Mozambique cocks, the comb, caruncle, and epidermis being black. So
far, everything had succeeded, thanks to the activity of these
courageous and intelligent men. Nature did much for them,
doubtless; but faithful to the great precept, they made a right use
of what a bountiful Providence gave them.

After the heat of these warm summer days, in the evening when
their work was finished and the sea-breeze began to blow, they
liked to sit on the edge of Prospect Heights, in a sort of veranda,
covered with creepers, which Neb had made with his own hands. There
they talked, they instructed each other, they made plans, and the
rough good-humor of the sailor always amused this little world, in
which the most perfect harmony had never ceased to reign.

They often spoke of their country, of their dear and great
America. What was the result of the War of Secession? It could not
have been greatly prolonged. Richmond had doubtless soon fallen
into the hands of General Grant. The taking of the capital of the
Confederates must have been the last action of this terrible
struggle. Now the North had triumphed in the good cause, how
welcome would have been a newspaper to the exiles in Lincoln
Island! For eleven months all communication between them and the
rest of their fellow-creatures had been interrupted, and in a short
time the 24th of March would arrive, the anniversary of the day on
which the balloon had thrown them on this unknown coast. They were
then mere castaways, not even knowing how they should preserve
their miserable lives from the fury of the elements! And now,
thanks to the knowledge of their captain, and their own
intelligence, they were regular colonists, furnished with arms,
tools, and instruments; they had been able to turn to their profit
the animals, plants, and minerals of the island, that is to say,
the three kingdoms of Nature.

Yes; they often talked of all these things and formed still more
plans.

As to Cyrus Harding he was for the most part silent, and
listened to his companions more often than he spoke to them.
Sometimes he smiled at Herbert's ideas or Pencroft's nonsense, but
always and everywhere he pondered over those inexplicable facts,
that strange enigma, of which the secret still escaped him!




