Cyrus Harding and Herbert, while hunting one day, had entered
the forest of the Far West, on the left bank of the Mercy, and, as
usual, the lad was asking a thousand questions of the engineer, who
answered them heartily. Now, as Harding was not a sportsman, and
as, on the other side, Herbert was talking chemistry and natural
philosophy, numbers of kangaroos, capybaras, and agouties came
within range, which, however, escaped the lad's gun; the
consequence was that the day was already advanced, and the two
hunters were in danger of having made a useless excursion, when
Herbert, stopping, and uttering a cry of joy, exclaimed,—

"Oh, Captain Harding, do you see that tree?" and he pointed to a
shrub, rather than a tree, for it was composed of a single stem,
covered with a scaly bark, which bore leaves streaked with little
parallel veins.

"And what is this tree which resembles a little palm?" asked
Harding.

"It is a 'cycas revoluta,' of which I have a picture in our
dictionary of Natural History!" said Herbert.

"But I can't see any fruit on this shrub!" observed his
companion.

"No, captain," replied Herbert; "but its stem contains a flour
with which nature has provided us all ready ground."

"It is, then, the bread-tree?"

"Yes, the bread-tree."

"Well, my boy," replied the engineer, "this is a valuable
discovery, since our wheat harvest is not yet ripe; I hope that you
are not mistaken!"

Herbert was not mistaken: he broke the stem of a cycas, which
was composed of a glandulous tissue, containing a quantity of
floury pith, traversed with woody fiber, separated by rings of the
same substance, arranged concentrically. With this fecula was
mingled a mucilaginous juice of disagreeable flavor, but which it
would be easy to get rid of by pressure. This cellular substance
was regular flour of a superior quality, extremely nourishing; its
exportation was formerly forbidden by the Japanese laws.

Cyrus Harding and Herbert, after having examined that part of
the Far West where the cycas grew, took their bearings, and
returned to Granite House, where they made known their
discovery.
