A single thing had the honor of drawing him, but for one day
only, from his dockyard. This was the second wheat-harvest, which
was gathered in on the 15th of April. It was as much a success as
the first, and yielded the number of grains which had been
predicted.

"Five bushels, captain," said Pencroft, alter having
scrupulously measured his treasure.

"Five bushels," replied the engineer; "and a hundred and thirty
thousand grains a bushel will make six hundred and fifty thousand
grains."

"Well, we will sow them all this time," said the sailor, "except
a little in reserve."

"Yes, Pencroft, and if the next crop gives a proportionate
yield, we shall have four thousand bushels."

"And shall we eat bread?"

"We shall eat bread."

"But we must have a mill.

"We will make one."

The third corn-field was very much larger than the two first,
and the soil, prepared with extreme care, received the precious
seed. That done, Pencroft returned to his work.

During this time Spilett and Herbert hunted in the neighborhood,
and they ventured deep into the still unknown parts of the Far
West, their guns loaded with ball, ready for any dangerous
emergency. It was a vast thicket of magnificent trees, crowded
together as if pressed for room. The exploration of these dense
masses of wood was difficult in the extreme, and the reporter never
ventured there without the pocket-compass, for the sun scarcely
pierced through the thick foliage and it would have been very
difficult for them to retrace their way. It naturally happened that
game was more rare in those situations where there was hardly
sufficient room to move; two or three large herbivorous animals
were however killed during the last fortnight of April. These were
koalas, specimens of which the settlers had already seen to the
north of the lake, and which stupidly allowed themselves to be
killed among the thick branches of the trees in which they took
refuge. Their skins were brought back to Granite House, and there,
by the help of sulphuric acid, they were subjected to a sort of
tanning process which rendered them capable of being used.
