For some days they had observed an enormous animal two or three
miles out in the open sea swimming around Lincoln Island. This was
a whale of the largest size, which apparently belonged to the
southern species, called the "Cape Whale."

"What a lucky chance it would be if we could capture it!" cried
the sailor. "Ah! if we only had a proper boat and a good harpoon, I
would say 'After the beast,' for he would be well worth the trouble
of catching!"

"Well, Pencroft," observed Harding, "I should much like to watch
you handling a harpoon. It would be very interesting."

"I am astonished," said the reporter, "to see a whale in this
comparatively high latitude."

"Why so, Mr. Spilett?" replied Herbert. "We are exactly in that
part of the Pacific which English and American whalemen call the
whale field, and it is here, between New Zealand and South America,
that the whales of the Southern Hemisphere are met with in the
greatest numbers."

And Pencroft returned to his work, not without uttering a sigh
of regret, for every sailor is a born fisherman, and if the
pleasure of fishing is in exact proportion to the size of the
animal, one can judge how a whaler feels in sight of a whale. And
if this had only been for pleasure! But they could not help feeling
how valuable such a prize would have been to the colony, for the
oil, fat, and bones would have been put to many uses.

Now it happened that this whale appeared to have no wish to
leave the waters of the island. Therefore, whether from the windows
of Granite House, or from Prospect Heights, Herbert and Gideon
Spilett, when they were not hunting, or Neb, unless presiding over
his fires, never left the telescope, but watched all the animal's
movements. The cetacean, having entered far into Union Bay, made
rapid furrows across it from Mandible Cape to Claw Cape, propelled
by its enormously powerful flukes, on which it supported itself,
and making its way through the water at the rate little short of
twelve knots an hour. Sometimes also it approached so near to the
island that it could be clearly distinguished. It was the southern
whale, which is completely black, the head being more depressed
than that of the northern whale.

They could also see it throwing up from its air-holes to a great
height a cloud of vapor, or of water, for, strange as it may
appear, naturalists and whalers are not agreed on this subject. Is
it air or is it water which is thus driven out? It is generally
admitted to be vapor, which, condensing suddenly by contact with
the cold air, falls again as rain.

However, the presence of this mammifer preoccupied the
colonists. It irritated Pencroft especially, as he could think of
nothing else while at work. He ended by longing for it, like a
child for a thing which it has been denied. At night he talked
about it in his sleep, and certainly if he had had the means of
attacking it, if the sloop had been in a fit state to put to sea,
he would not have hesitated to set out in pursuit.

But what the colonists could not do for themselves chance did
for them, and on the 3rd of May shouts from Neb, who had stationed
himself at the kitchen window, announced that the whale was
stranded on the beach of the island.

Herbert and Gideon Spilett, who were just about to set out
hunting, left their guns, Pencroft threw down his ax, and Harding
and Neb joining their companions, all rushed towards the scene of
action.
