And the sailor brandishing the harpoon, repeated, not without
emotion, the name which he loved so well—the name of his
birthplace.

But as it could not be expected that the "Maria Stella" would
come to reclaim the animal harpooned by her, they resolved to begin
cutting it up before decomposition should commence. The birds, who
had watched this rich prey for several days, had determined to take
possession of it without further delay, and it was necessary to
drive them off by firing at them repeatedly.

The whale was a female, and a large quantity of milk was taken
from it, which, according to the opinion of the naturalist
Duffenbach, might pass for cow's milk, and, indeed, it differs from
it neither in taste, color, nor density.

Pencroft had formerly served on board a whaling-ship, and he
could methodically direct the operation of cutting up, a
sufficiently disagreeable operation lasting three days, but from
which the settlers did not flinch, not even Gideon Spilett, who, as
the sailor said, would end by making a "real good castaway."

The blubber, cut in parallel slices of two feet and a half in
thickness, then divided into pieces which might weigh about a
thousand pounds each, was melted down in large earthen pots brought
to the spot, for they did not wish to taint the environs of Granite
House, and in this fusion it lost nearly a third of its weight.

But there was an immense quantity of it; the tongue alone
yielded six thousand pounds of oil, and the lower lip four
thousand. Then, besides the fat, which would insure for a long time
a store of stearine and glycerine, there were still the bones, for
which a use could doubtless be found, although there were neither
umbrellas nor stays used at Granite House. The upper part of the
mouth of the cetacean was, indeed, provided on both sides with
eight hundred horny blades, very elastic, of a fibrous texture, and
fringed at the edge like great combs, at which the teeth, six feet
long, served to retain the thousands of animalculae, little fish,
and molluscs, on which the whale fed.

The operation finished, to the great satisfaction of the
operators, the remains of the animal were left to the birds, who
would soon make every vestige of it disappear, and their usual
daily occupations were resumed by the inmates of Granite House.

However, before returning to the dockyard, Cyrus Harding
conceived the idea of fabricating certain machines, which greatly
excited the curiosity of his companions. He took a dozen of the
whale's bones, cut them into six equal parts, and sharpened their
ends.

"This machine is not my own invention, and it is frequently
employed by the Aleutian hunters in Russian America. You see these
bones, my friends; well, when it freezes, I will bend them, and
then wet them with water till they are entirely covered with ice,
which will keep them bent, and I will strew them on the snow,
having previously covered them with fat. Now, what will happen if a
hungry animal swallows one of these baits? Why, the heat of his
stomach will melt the ice, and the bone, springing straight, will
pierce him with its sharp points."

"Well! I do call that ingenious!" said Pencroft.

"And it will spare the powder and shot," rejoined Cyrus
Harding.
