The operation, ably directed by Cyrus Harding, was a complete
success. The wool, previously impregnated with a solution of soap,
intended on the one hand to facilitate the interlacing, the
compression, and the softening of the wool, and on the other to
prevent its diminution by the beating, issued from the mill in the
shape of thick felt cloth. The roughnesses with which the staple of
wool is naturally filled were so thoroughly entangled and
interlaced together that a material was formed equally suitable
either for garments or bedclothes. It was certainly neither merino,
muslin, cashmere, rep, satin, alpaca, cloth, nor flannel. It was
"Lincolnian felt," and Lincoln Island possessed yet another
manufacture. The colonists had now warm garments and thick
bedclothes, and they could without fear await the approach of the
winter of 1866-67.

The severe cold began to be felt about the 20th of June, and, to
his great regret, Pencroft was obliged to suspend his
boat-building, which he hoped to finish in time for next
spring.

The sailor's great idea was to make a voyage of discovery to
Tabor Island, although Harding could not approve of a voyage simply
for curiosity's sake, for there was evidently nothing to be found
on this desert and almost arid rock. A voyage of a hundred and
fifty miles in a comparatively small vessel, over unknown seas,
could not but cause him some anxiety. Suppose that their vessel,
once out at sea, should be unable to reach Tabor Island, and could
not return to Lincoln Island, what would become of her in the midst
of the Pacific, so fruitful of disasters?

Harding often talked over this project with Pencroft, and he
found him strangely bent upon undertaking this voyage, for which
determination he himself could give no sufficient reason.

"Now," said the engineer one day to him, "I must observe, my
friend, that after having said so much, in praise of Lincoln
Island, after having spoken so often of the sorrow you would feel
if you were obliged to forsake it, you are the first to wish to
leave it."

"Only to leave it for a few days," replied Pencroft, "only for a
few days, captain. Time to go and come back, and see what that
islet is like!"

"But it is not nearly as good as Lincoln Island."

"I know that beforehand."

"Then why venture there?"

"To know what is going on in Tabor Island."

"But nothing is going on there; nothing could happen there."
