Gideon Spilett had already several times pondered whether to
throw into the sea a letter enclosed in a bottle, which currents
might perhaps carry to an inhabited coast, or to confide it to
pigeons.

But how could it be seriously hoped that either pigeons or
bottles could cross the distance of twelve hundred miles which
separated the island from any inhabited land? It would have been
pure folly.

But on the 30th of June the capture was effected, not without
difficulty, of an albatross, which a shot from Herbert's gun had
slightly wounded in the foot. It was a magnificent bird, measuring
ten feet from wing to wing, and which could traverse seas as wide
as the Pacific.

Herbert would have liked to keep this superb bird, as its wound
would soon heal, and he thought he could tame it; but Spilett
explained to him that they should not neglect this opportunity of
attempting to communicate by this messenger with the lands of the
Pacific; for if the albatross had come from some inhabited region,
there was no doubt but that it would return there so soon as it was
set free.

Perhaps in his heart Gideon Spilett, in whom the journalist
sometimes came to the surface, was not sorry to have the
opportunity of sending forth to take its chance an exciting article
relating the adventures of the settlers in Lincoln Island. What a
success for the authorized reporter of the New York Herald, and for
the number which should contain the article, if it should ever
reach the address of its editor, the Honorable James Bennett!

Gideon Spilett then wrote out a concise account, which was
placed in a strong waterproof bag, with an earnest request to
whoever might find it to forward it to the office of the New York
Herald. This little bag was fastened to the neck of the albatross,
and not to its foot, for these birds are in the habit of resting on
the surface of the sea; then liberty was given to this swift
courier of the air, and it was not without some emotion that the
colonists watched it disappear in the misty west.

"Where is he going to?" asked Pencroft.

"Towards New Zealand," replied Herbert.

"A good voyage to you," shouted the sailor, who himself did not
expect any great result from this mode of correspondence.

With the winter, work had been resumed in the interior of
Granite House, mending clothes and different occupations, among
others making the sails for their vessel, which were cut from the
inexhaustible balloon-case.

During the month of July the cold was intense, but there was no
lack of either wood or coal. Cyrus Harding had established a second
fireplace in the dining-room, and there the long winter evenings
were spent. Talking while they worked, reading when the hands
remained idle, the time passed with profit to all.
