"To oblige you, Neb, I will," replied the reporter; "but I warn
you that if you disclose your receipts to me, I shall publish
them."

"Whenever you like, Mr. Spilett," replied Neb; "whenever you
like."

And so the next day Gideon Spilett became Neb's assistant and
was installed in his culinary laboratory. The engineer had
previously made known to him the result of the exploration which he
had made the day before, and on this point the reporter shared
Harding's opinion, that although he had found nothing, a secret
still remained to be discovered!

The frost continued for another week, and the settlers did not
leave Granite House unless to look after the poultry-yard. The
dwelling was filled with appetizing odors, which were emitted from
the learned manipulation of Neb and the reporter. But all the
results of the chase were not made into preserved provisions; and
as the game kept perfectly in the intense cold, wild duck and other
fowl were eaten fresh, and declared superior to all other aquatic
birds in the known world.

During this week, Pencroft, aided by Herbert, who handled the
sailmaker's needle with much skill, worked with such energy that
the sails of the vessel were finished. There was no want of
cordage. Thanks to the rigging which had been discovered with the
case of the balloon, the ropes and cables from the net were all of
good quality, and the sailor turned them all to account. To the
sails were attached strong bolt ropes, and there still remained
enough from which to make the halyards, shrouds, and sheets, etc.
The blocks were manufactured by Cyrus Harding under Pencroft's
directions by means of the turning lathe. It therefore happened
that the rigging was entirely prepared before the vessel was
finished. Pencroft also manufactured a flag, that flag so dear to
every true American, containing the stars and stripes of their
glorious Union. The colors for it were supplied from certain plants
used in dyeing, and which were very abundant in the island; only to
the thirty-seven stars, representing the thirty- seven States of
the Union, which shine on the American flag, the sailor added a
thirty-eighth, the star of "the State of Lincoln," for he
considered his island as already united to the great republic.
"And," said he, "it is so already in heart, if not in deed!"

In the meantime, the flag was hoisted at the central window of
Granite House, and the settlers saluted it with three cheers.

The cold season was now almost at an end, and it appeared as if
this second winter was to pass without any unusual occurrence, when
on the night of the 11th of August, the plateau of Prospect Heights
was menaced with complete destruction.

After a busy day the colonists were sleeping soundly, when
towards four o'clock in the morning they were suddenly awakened by
Top's barking.

The dog was not this time barking near the mouth of the well,
but at the threshold of the door, at which he was scratching as if
he wished to burst it open. Jup was also uttering piercing
cries.

"Hello, Top!" cried Neb, who was the first awake. But the dog
continued to bark more furiously than ever.

"What's the matter now?" asked Harding.
