
"They shall not pass!" returned the engineer.

But if they did not pass it was not for want of having attempted
it. Those in the rear pushed on the foremost assailants, and it was
an incessant struggle with revolvers and hatchets. Several colpeos
already lay dead on the ground, but their number did not appear to
diminish, and it might have been supposed that reinforcements were
continually arriving over the bridge.

The colonists were soon obliged to fight at close quarters, not
without receiving some wounds, though happily very slight ones.
Herbert had, with a shot from his revolver, rescued Neb, on whose
back a colpeo had sprung like a tiger cat. Top fought with actual
fury, flying at the throats of the foxes and strangling them
instantaneously. Jup wielded his weapon valiantly, and it was in
vain that they endeavored to keep him in the rear. Endowed
doubtless with sight which enabled him to pierce the obscurity, he
was always in the thick of the fight uttering from time to time—a
sharp hissing sound, which was with him the sign of great
rejoicing.

At one moment he advanced so far, that by the light from a
revolver he was seen surrounded by five or six large colpeos, with
whom he was coping with great coolness.

However, the struggle was ended at last, and victory was on the
side of the settlers, but not until they had fought for two long
hours! The first signs of the approach of day doubtless determined
the retreat of their assailants, who scampered away towards the
North, passing over the bridge, which Neb ran immediately to raise.
When day had sufficiently lighted up the field of battle, the
settlers counted as many as fifty dead bodies scattered about on
the shore.

"And Jup!" cried Pencroft; "where is Jup?" Jup had disappeared.
His friend Neb called him, and for the first time Jup did not reply
to his friend's call.

Everyone set out in search of Jup, trembling lest he should be
found among the slain; they cleared the place of the bodies which
stained the snow with their blood. Jup was found in the midst of a
heap of colpeos whose broken jaws and crushed bodies showed that
they had to do with the terrible club of the intrepid animal.

Poor Jup still held in his hand the stump of his broken cudgel,
but deprived of his weapon he had been overpowered by numbers, and
his chest was covered with severe wounds.

"He is living," cried Neb, who was bending over him.

"And we will save him," replied the sailor. "We will nurse him
as if he was one of ourselves."

