"That is perfectly logical," answered Spilett; "and the presence
of this castaway explains the arrival of the case on the shores of
our island. There must have been a wreck, since there is a
castaway. As to the latter, whoever he may be, it is lucky for him
that Pencroft thought of building this boat and of trying her this
very day, for a day later and this bottle might have been broken on
the rocks."

"Indeed," said Herbert, "it is a fortunate chance that the
'Bonadventure' passed exactly where the bottle was still
floating!"

"Does not this appear strange to you?" asked Harding of
Pencroft.

"It appears fortunate, that's all," answered the sailor. "Do you
see anything extraordinary in it, captain? The bottle must go
somewhere, and why not here as well as anywhere else?"

"Perhaps you are right, Pencroft," replied the engineer; "and
yet—"

"But," observed Herbert, "there's nothing to prove that this
bottle has been floating long in the sea."

"Nothing," replied Gideon Spilett, "and the document appears
even to have been recently written. What do you think about it,
Cyrus?"

During this conversation Pencroft had not remained inactive. He
had put the vessel about, and the "Bonadventure," all sails set,
was running rapidly towards Claw Cape.

Every one was thinking of the castaway on Tabor Island. Should
they be in time to save him? This was a great event in the life of
the colonists! They themselves were but castaways, but it was to be
feared that another might not have been so fortunate, and their
duty was to go to his succor.

Claw Cape was doubled, and about four o'clock the "Bonadventure"
dropped her anchor at the mouth of the Mercy.

That same evening the arrangements for the new expedition were
made. It appeared best that Pencroft and Herbert, who knew how to
work the vessel, should undertake the voyage alone. By setting out
the next day, the 10th of October, they would arrive on the 13th,
for with the present wind it would not take more than forty-eight
hours to make this passage of a hundred and fifty miles. One day in
the island, three or four to return, they might hope therefore that
on the 17th they would again reach Lincoln Island. The weather was
fine, the barometer was rising, the wind appeared settled,
everything then was in favor of these brave men whom an act of
humanity was taking far from their island.
