Doubtless some whaler had landed them on the island, where they
had rapidly increased. Herbert resolved to catch one or two living,
and take them back to Lincoln Island.

It was no longer doubtful that men at some period or other had
visited this islet, and this became still more evident when paths
appeared trodden through the forest, felled trees, and everywhere
traces of the hand of man; but the trees were becoming rotten, and
had been felled many years ago; the marks of the axe were velveted
with moss, and the grass grew long and thick on the paths, so that
it was difficult to find them.

"But," observed Gideon Spilett, "this not only proves that men
have landed on the island, but also that they lived on it for some
time. Now, who were these men? How many of them remain?"

"The document," said Herbert, "only spoke of one castaway."

"Well, if he is still on the island," replied Pencroft, "it is
impossible but that we shall find him."

The exploration was continued. The sailor and his companions
naturally followed the route which cut diagonally across the
island, and they were thus obliged to follow the stream which
flowed towards the sea.

If the animals of European origin, if works due to a human hand,
showed incontestably that men had already visited the island,
several specimens of the vegetable kingdom did not prove it less.
In some places, in the midst of clearings, it was evident that the
soil had been planted with culinary plants, at probably the same
distant period.

What, then, was Herbert's joy, when he recognized potatoes,
chicory, sorrel, carrots, cabbages, and turnips, of which it was
sufficient to collect the seed to enrich the soil of Lincoln
Island.

"Capital, jolly!" exclaimed Pencroft. "That will suit Neb as
well as us. Even if we do not find the castaway, at least our
voyage will not have been useless, and God will have rewarded
us."

"Doubtless," replied Gideon Spilett, "but to see the state in
which we find these plantations, it is to be feared that the island
has not been inhabited for some time."

"Indeed," answered Herbert, "an inhabitant, whoever he was,
could not have neglected such an important culture!"
