
The sailor rushed out, followed by the boy. On the sand, among
the rocks, near the river's bank, they both searched carefully, but
in vain. The box was of copper, and therefore would have been
easily seen.

"Pencroft," asked Herbert, "didn't you throw it out of the
car?"

"I knew better than that," replied the sailor; "but such a small
article could easily disappear in the tumbling about we have gone
through. I would rather even have lost my pipe! Confound the box!
Where can it be?"

"Look here, the tide is going down," said Herbert; "let's run to
the place where we landed."

It was scarcely probable that they would find the box, which the
waves had rolled about among the pebbles, at high tide, but it was
as well to try. Herbert and Pencroft walked rapidly to the point
where they had landed the day before, about two hundred feet from
the cave. They hunted there, among the shingle, in the clefts of
the rocks, but found nothing. If the box had fallen at this place
it must have been swept away by the waves. As the sea went down,
they searched every little crevice with no result. It was a grave
loss in their circumstances, and for the time irreparable. Pencroft
could not hide his vexation; he looked very anxious, but said not a
word. Herbert tried to console him by observing, that if they had
found the matches, they would, very likely, have been wetted by the
sea and useless.

"No, my boy," replied the sailor; "they were in a copper box
which shut very tightly; and now what are we to do?"

"We shall certainly find some way of making a fire," said
Herbert. "Captain Harding or Mr. Spilett will not be without
them."

"Yes," replied Pencroft; "but in the meantime we are without
fire, and our companions will find but a sorry repast on their
return."

"But," said Herbert quickly, "do you think it possible that they
have no tinder or matches?"

"I doubt it," replied the sailor, shaking his head, "for neither
Neb nor Captain Harding smoke, and I believe that Mr. Spilett would
rather keep his note-book than his match-box."

