"Why so?" asked the reporter.

"Because the document would then have spoken of two castaways,"
replied Harding, "and it mentioned only one."

Herbert then in a few words related the incidents of the voyage,
and dwelt on the curious fact of the sort of passing gleam in the
prisoner's mind, when for an instant in the height of the storm he
had become a sailor.

"Well, Herbert," replied the engineer, "you are right to attach
great importance to this fact. The unfortunate man cannot be
incurable, and despair has made him what he is; but here he will
find his fellow-men, and since there is still a soul in him, this
soul we shall save!"

The castaway of Tabor Island, to the great pity of the engineer
and the great astonishment of Neb, was then brought from the cabin
which he occupied in the fore part of the "Bonadventure"; when once
on land he manifested a wish to run away.

But Cyrus Harding approaching, placed his hand on his shoulder
with a gesture full of authority, and looked at him with infinite
tenderness. Immediately the unhappy man, submitting to a superior
will, gradually became calm, his eyes fell, his head bent, and he
made no more resistance.

"Poor fellow!" murmured the engineer.

Cyrus Harding had attentively observed him. To judge by his
appearance this miserable being had no longer anything human about
him, and yet Harding, as had the reporter already, observed in his
look an indefinable trace of intelligence.

It was decided that the castaway, or rather the stranger as he
was thenceforth termed by his companions, should live in one of the
rooms of Granite House, from which, however, he could not escape.
He was led there without difficulty, and with careful attention, it
might, perhaps, be hoped that some day he would be a companion to
the settlers in Lincoln Island.

Cyrus Harding, during breakfast, which Neb had hastened to
prepare, as the reporter, Herbert, and Pencroft were dying of
hunger, heard in detail all the incidents which had marked the
voyage of exploration to the islet. He agreed with his friends on
this point, that the stranger must be either English or American,
the name Britannia leading them to suppose this, and, besides,
through the bushy beard, and under the shaggy, matted hair, the
engineer thought he could recognize the characteristic features of
the Anglo-Saxon.

"But, by the bye," said Gideon Spilett, addressing Herbert, "you
never told us how you met this savage, and we know nothing, except
that you would have been strangled, if we had not happened to come
up in time to help you!"
