
They set to work by choosing timber for the frame and machinery
of the mill. Some large stones, found at the north of the lake,
could be easily transformed into millstones, and as to the sails,
the inexhaustible case of the balloon furnished the necessary
material.

Cyrus Harding made his model, and the site of the mill was
chosen a little to the right of the poultry-yard, near the shore of
the lake. The frame was to rest on a pivot supported with strong
timbers, so that it could turn with all the machinery it contained
according as the wind required it. The work advanced rapidly. Neb
and Pencroft had become very skilful carpenters, and had nothing to
do but to copy the models provided by the engineer.

Soon a sort of cylindrical box, in shape like a pepper-pot, with
a pointed roof, rose on the spot chosen. The four frames which
formed the sails had been firmly fixed in the center beam, so as to
form a certain angle with it, and secured with iron clamps. As to
the different parts of the internal mechanism, the box destined to
contain the two millstones, the fixed stone and the moving stone,
the hopper, a sort of large square trough, wide at the top, narrow
at the bottom, which would allow the grain to fall on the stones,
the oscillating spout intended to regulate the passing of the
grain, and lastly the bolting machine, which by the operation of
sifting, separates the bran from the flour, were made without
difficulty. The tools were good, and the work not difficult, for in
reality, the machinery of a mill is very simple. This was only a
question of time.

Every one had worked at the construction of the mill, and on the
1st of December it was finished. As usual, Pencroft was delighted
with his work, and had no doubt that the apparatus was perfect.

"Now for a good wind," said he, "and we shall grind our first
harvest splendidly!"

"A good wind, certainly," answered the engineer, "but not too
much, Pencroft."

"Pooh! our mill would only go the faster!"

"There is no need for it to go so very fast," replied Cyrus
Harding. "It is known by experience that the greatest quantity of
work is performed by a mill when the number of turns made by the
sails in a minute is six times the number of feet traversed by the
wind in a second. A moderate breeze, which passes over twenty-four
feet to the second, will give sixteen turns to the sails during a
minute, and there is no need of more."

"Exactly!" cried Herbert, "a fine breeze is blowing from the
northeast, which will soon do our business for us."

There was no reason for delaying the inauguration of the mill,
for the settlers were eager to taste the first piece of bread in
Lincoln Island. On this morning two or three bushels of wheat were
ground, and the next day at breakfast a magnificent loaf, a little
heavy perhaps, although raised with yeast, appeared on the table at
Granite House. Every one munched away at it with a pleasure which
may be easily understood.

