
"Ayrton, arrived at Melbourne, delivered the letter to the mate,
Tom Austin, who read it and immediately set sail, but judge of
Ayrton's rage and disappointment, when the next day he found that
the mate was taking the vessel, not to the east coast of Australia,
to Twofold Bay, but to the east coast of New Zealand. He wished to
stop him, but Austin showed him the letter!… And indeed, by a
providential error of the French geographer, who had written the
letter, the east coast of New Zealand was mentioned as the place of
destination.

"All Ayrton's plans were frustrated! He became outrageous. They
put him in irons. He was then taken to the coast of New Zealand,
not knowing what would become of his accomplices, or what would
become of Lord Glenarvan.

"The 'Duncan' cruised about on this coast until the 3rd of
March. On that day Ayrton heard the report of guns. The guns on the
'Duncan' were being fired, and soon Lord Glenarvan and his
companions came on board.

"This is what had happened.

"After a thousand hardships, a thousand dangers, Lord Glenarvan
had accomplished his journey, and arrived on the east coast of
Australia, at Twofold Bay. 'Not "Duncan!"' He telegraphed to
Melbourne. They answered, '"Duncan" sailed on the 18th instant.
Destination unknown.'

"Lord Glenarvan could only arrive at one conclusion; that his
honest yacht had fallen into the hands of Ben Joyce, and had become
a pirate vessel!

"However, Lord Glenarvan would not give up. He was a bold and
generous man. He embarked in a merchant vessel, sailed to the west
coast of New Zealand, traversed it along the thirty-seventh
parallel, without finding any trace of Captain Grant; but on the
other side, to his great surprise, and by the will of Heaven, he
found the 'Duncan,' under command of the mate, who had been waiting
for him for five weeks!

"This was on the 3rd of March, 1855. Lord Glenarvan was now on
board the 'Duncan,' but Ayrton was there also. He appeared before
the nobleman, who wished to extract from him all that the villain
knew about Captain Grant. Ayrton refused to speak. Lord Glenarvan
then told him, that at the first port they put into, he would be
delivered up to the English authorities. Ayrton remained mute.

"The 'Duncan' continued her voyage along the thirty-seventh
parallel. In the meanwhile, Lady Glenarvan undertook to vanquish
the resistance of the ruffian.

"At last, her influence prevailed, and Ayrton, in exchange for
what he could tell, proposed that Lord Glenarvan should leave him
on some island in the Pacific, instead of giving him up to the
English authorities. Lord Glenarvan, resolving to do anything to
obtain information about Captain Grant, consented.

