Therefore Cyrus Harding resolved to put the corral in
instantaneous communication with Granite House.

It was on the 10th of January that he made known his project to
his companions.

"Why! how are you going to manage that, captain?" asked
Pencroft. "Do you by chance happen to think of establishing a
telegraph?"

"Exactly so," answered the engineer.

"Electric?" cried Herbert.

"Electric," replied Cyrus Harding. "We have all the necessary
materials for making a battery, and the most difficult thing will
be to stretch the wires, but by means of a drawplate I think we
shall manage it."

"Well, after that," returned the sailor, "I shall never despair
of seeing ourselves some day rolling along on a railway!"

They then set to work, beginning with the most difficult thing,
for, if they failed in that, it would be useless to manufacture the
battery and other accessories.

The iron of Lincoln Island, as has been said, was of excellent
quality, and consequently very fit for being drawn out. Harding
commenced by manufacturing a drawplate, that is to say, a plate of
steel, pierced with conical holes of different sizes, which would
successively bring the wire to the wished-for tenacity. This piece
of steel, after having been tempered, was fixed in as firm a way as
possible in a solid framework planted in the ground, only a few
feet from the great fall, the motive power of which the engineer
intended to utilize. In fact as the fulling- mill was there,
although not then in use, its beam moved with extreme power would
serve to stretch out the wire by rolling it round itself. It was a
delicate operation, and required much care. The iron, prepared
previously in long thin rods, the ends of which were sharpened with
the file, having been introduced into the largest hole of the
drawplate, was drawn out by the beam which wound it round itself,
to a length of twenty-five or thirty feet, then unrolled, and the
same operation was performed successively through the holes of a
less size. Finally, the engineer obtained wires from forty to fifty
feet long, which could be easily fastened together and stretched
over the distance of five miles, which separated the corral from
the bounds of Granite House.

It did not take more than a few days to perform this work, and
indeed as soon as the machine had been commenced, Cyrus Harding
left his companions to follow the trade of wiredrawers, and
occupied himself with manufacturing his battery.

It was necessary to obtain a battery with a constant current. It
is known that the elements of modern batteries are generally
composed of retort coal, zinc, and copper. Copper was absolutely
wanting to the engineer, who, notwithstanding all his researches,
had never been able to find any trace of it in Lincoln Island, and
was therefore obliged to do without it. Retort coal, that is to
say, the hard graphite which is found in the retorts of gas
manufactories, after the coal has been dehydrogenized, could have
been obtained, but it would have been necessary to establish a
special apparatus, involving great labor. As to zinc, it may be
remembered that the case found at Flotsam Point was lined with this
metal, which could not be better utilized than for this
purpose.
