This same morning, the 26th of March, at daybreak, Neb had set
out on the shore in a northerly direction, and he had returned to
the spot where the sea, no doubt, had closed over the unfortunate
Harding.

That day's breakfast was composed solely of pigeon's eggs and
lithodomes. Herbert had found some salt deposited by evaporation in
the hollows of the rocks, and this mineral was very welcome.

The repast ended, Pencroft asked the reporter if he wished to
accompany Herbert and himself to the forest, where they were going
to try to hunt. But on consideration, it was thought necessary that
someone should remain to keep in the fire, and to be at hand in the
highly improbable event of Neb requiring aid. The reporter
accordingly remained behind.

"To the chase, Herbert," said the sailor. "We shall find
ammunition on our way, and cut our weapons in the forest." But at
the moment of starting, Herbert observed, that since they had no
tinder, it would perhaps be prudent to replace it by another
substance.

"What?" asked Pencroft.

"Burnt linen," replied the boy. "That could in case of need
serve for tinder."

The sailor thought it very sensible advice. Only it had the
inconvenience of necessitating the sacrifice of a piece of
handkerchief. Notwithstanding, the thing was well worth while
trying, and a part of Pencroft's large checked handkerchief was
soon reduced to the state of a half-burnt rag. This inflammable
material was placed in the central chamber at the bottom of a
little cavity in the rock, sheltered from all wind and damp.

It was nine o'clock in the morning. The weather was threatening
and the breeze blew from the southeast. Herbert and Pencroft turned
the angle of the Chimneys, not without having cast a look at the
smoke which, just at that place, curled round a point of rock: they
ascended the left bank of the river.

Arrived at the forest, Pencroft broke from the first tree two
stout branches which he transformed into clubs, the ends of which
Herbert rubbed smooth on a rock. Oh! what would they not have given
for a knife!

The two hunters now advanced among the long grass, following the
bank. From the turning which directed its course to the southwest,
the river narrowed gradually and the channel lay between high
banks, over which the trees formed a double arch. Pencroft, lest
they should lose themselves, resolved to follow the course of the
stream, which would always lead them back to the point from which
they started. But the bank was not without some obstacles: here,
the flexible branches of the trees bent level with the current;
there, creepers and thorns which they had to break down with their
sticks. Herbert often glided among the broken stumps with the
agility of a young cat, and disappeared in the underwood. But
Pencroft called him back directly, begging him not to wander away.
Meanwhile, the sailor attentively observed the disposition and
nature of the surrounding country. On the left bank, the ground,
which was flat and marshy, rose imperceptibly towards the interior.
It looked there like a network of liquid threads which doubtless
reached the river by some underground drain. Sometimes a stream ran
through the underwood, which they crossed without difficulty. The
opposite shore appeared to be more uneven, and the valley of which
the river occupied the bottom was more clearly visible. The hill,
covered with trees disposed in terraces, intercepted the view. On
the right bank walking would have been difficult, for the
declivities fell suddenly, and the trees bending over the water
were only sustained by the strength of their roots.

It is needless to add that this forest, as well as the coast
already surveyed, was destitute of any sign of human life. Pencroft
only saw traces of quadrupeds, fresh footprints of animals, of
which he could not recognize the species. In all probability, and
such was also Herbert's opinion, some had been left by formidable
wild beasts which doubtless would give them some trouble; but
nowhere did they observe the mark of an axe on the trees, nor the
ashes of a fire, nor the impression of a human foot. On this they
might probably congratulate themselves, for on any land in the
middle of the Pacific the presence of man was perhaps more to be
feared than desired. Herbert and Pencroft speaking little, for the
difficulties of the way were great, advanced very slowly, and after
walking for an hour they had scarcely gone more than a mile. As yet
the hunt had not been successful. However, some birds sang and
fluttered in the foliage, and appeared very timid, as if man had
inspired them with an instinctive fear. Among others, Herbert
described, in a marshy part of the forest, a bird with a long
pointed beak, closely resembling the king-fisher, but its plumage
was not fine, though of a metallic brilliancy.
