"What is to be done?" asked the lad.

"Wait," replied Harding.

And for a considerable time the settlers remained silent, given
up to all the thoughts, and the emotions, all the fears, all the
hopes, which were aroused by this incident—the most important which
had occurred since their arrival in Lincoln Island. Certainly, the
colonists were not in the situation of castaways abandoned on a
sterile islet, constantly contending against a cruel nature for
their miserable existence, and incessantly tormented by the longing
to return to inhabited countries. Pencroft and Neb, especially, who
felt themselves at once so happy and so rich, would not have left
their island without regret. They were accustomed, besides, to this
new life in the midst of the domain which their intelligence had as
it were civilized. But at any rate this ship brought news from the
world, perhaps even from their native land. It was bringing
fellow-creatures to them, and it may be conceived how deeply their
hearts were moved at the sight!

From time to time Pencroft took the glass and rested himself at
the window. From thence he very attentively examined the vessel,
which was at a distance of twenty miles to the east. The colonists
had as yet, therefore, no means of signalizing their presence. A
flag would not have been perceived; a gun would not have been
heard; a fire would not have been visible. However, it was certain
that the island, overtopped by Mount Franklin, could not escape the
notice of the vessel's lookout. But why was the ship coming there?
Was it simple chance which brought it to that part of the Pacific,
where the maps mentioned no land except Tabor Island, which itself
was out of the route usually followed by vessels from the
Polynesian Archipelagoes, from New Zealand, and from the American
coast? To this question, which each one asked himself, a reply was
suddenly made by Herbert.

"Can it be the 'Duncan'?" he cried.

The "Duncan," as has been said, was Lord Glenarvan's yacht,
which had left Ayrton on the islet, and which was to return there
someday to fetch him. Now, the islet was not so far distant from
Lincoln Island, but that a vessel, standing for the one, could pass
in sight of the other. A hundred and fifty miles only separated
them in longitude, and seventy in latitude.

"We must tell Ayrton," said Gideon Spilett, "and send for him
immediately. He alone can say if it is the 'Duncan.'"

This was the opinion of all, and the reporter, going to the
telegraphic apparatus which placed the corral in communication with
Granite House, sent this telegram:—"Come with all possible
speed."

In a few minutes the bell sounded.

"I am coming," replied Ayrton.

Then the settlers continued to watch the vessel.
