"What we shall do, my friends? What we ought to do is this:—we
will communicate with the ship, we will take our passage on board
her, and we will leave our island, after having taken possession of
it in the name of the United States. Then we will return with any
who may wish to follow us to colonize it definitely, and endow the
American Republic with a useful station in this part of the Pacific
Ocean!"

"Hurrah!" exclaimed Pencroft, "and that will be no small present
which we shall make to our country! The colonization is already
almost finished; names are given to every part of the island; there
is a natural port, fresh water, roads, a telegraph, a dockyard, and
manufactories; and there will be nothing to be done but to inscribe
Lincoln Island on the maps!"

"But if anyone seizes it in our absence?" observed Gideon
Spilett.

"Hang it!" cried the sailor. "I would rather remain all alone to
guard it: and trust to Pencroft, they shouldn't steal it from him,
like a watch from the pocket of a swell!"

For an hour it was impossible to say with any certainty whether
the vessel was or was not standing towards Lincoln Island. She was
nearer, but in what direction was she sailing? This Pencroft could
not determine. However, as the wind was blowing from the northeast,
in all probability the vessel was sailing on the starboard tack.
Besides, the wind was favorable for bringing her towards the
island, and, the sea being calm, she would not be afraid to
approach although the shallows were not marked on the chart.

Towards four o'clock—an hour after he had been sent for—Ayrton
arrived at Granite House. He entered the dining-room saying,—

"At your service, gentlemen."

Cyrus Harding gave him his hand, as was his custom to do, and,
leading him to the window,—

"Ayrton," said he, "we have begged you to come here for an
important reason. A ship is in sight of the island."

Ayrton at first paled slightly, and for a moment his eyes became
dim; then, leaning out the window, he surveyed the horizon, but
could see nothing.

"Take this telescope," said Spilett, "and look carefully,
Ayrton, for it is possible that this ship may be the 'Duncan' come
to these seas for the purpose of taking you home again."
