So saying, Ayrton sat down in a corner of the room and remained
silent. The colonists again discussed the strange ship, but Ayrton
took no part in the conversation. All were in such a mood that they
found it impossible to continue their work. Gideon Spilett and
Pencroft were particularly nervous, going, coming, not able to
remain still in one place. Herbert felt more curiosity. Neb alone
maintained his usual calm manner. Was not his country that where
his master was? As to the engineer, he remained plunged in deep
thought, and in his heart feared rather than desired the arrival of
the ship. In the meanwhile, the vessel was a little nearer the
island. With the aid of the glass, it was ascertained that she was
a brig, and not one of those Malay proas, which are generally used
by the pirates of the Pacific. It was, therefore, reasonable to
believe that the engineer's apprehensions would not be justified,
and that the presence of this vessel in the vicinity of the island
was fraught with no danger.

Pencroft, after a minute examination, was able positively to
affirm that the vessel was rigged as a brig, and that she was
standing obliquely towards the coast, on the starboard tack, under
her topsails and top- gallant-sails. This was confirmed by Ayrton.
But by continuing in this direction she must soon disappear behind
Claw Cape, as the wind was from the southwest, and to watch her it
would be then necessary to ascend the height of Washington Bay,
near Port Balloon—a provoking circumstance, for it was already five
o'clock in the evening, and the twilight would soon make any
observation extremely difficult.

"What shall we do when night comes on?" asked Gideon Spilett.
"Shall we light a fire, so as to signal our presence on the
coast?"

This was a serious question, and yet, although the engineer
still retained some of his presentiments, it was answered in the
affirmative. During the night the ship might disappear and leave
for ever, and, this ship gone, would another ever return to the
waters of Lincoln Island? Who could foresee what the future would
then have in store for the colonists?

"Yes," said the reporter, "we ought to make known to that
vessel, whoever she may be, that the island is inhabited. To
neglect the opportunity which is offered to us might be to create
everlasting regrets."

It was therefore decided that Neb and Pencroft should go to Port
Balloon, and that there, at nightfall, they should light an immense
fire, the blaze of which would necessarily attract the attention of
the brig.

But at the moment when Neb and the sailor were preparing to
leave Granite House, the vessel suddenly altered her course, and
stood directly for Union Bay. The brig was a good sailer, for she
approached rapidly. Neb and Pencroft put off their departure,
therefore, and the glass was put into Ayrton's hands, that he might
ascertain for certain whether the ship was or was not the "Duncan."
The Scotch yacht was also rigged as a brig. The question was,
whether a chimney could be discerned between the two masts of the
vessel, which was now at a distance of only five miles.

The horizon was still very clear. The examination was easy, and
Ayrton soon let the glass fall again, saying—

"It is not the 'Duncan'! It could not be!"

Pencroft again brought the brig within the range of the
telescope, and could see that she was of between three and four
hundred tons burden, wonderfully narrow, well-masted, admirably
built, and must be a very rapid sailer. But to what nation did she
belong? That was difficult to say.

"And yet," added the sailor, "a flag is floating from her peak,
but I cannot distinguish the colors of it."
