
"In half an hour we shall be certain about that," answered the
reporter. "Besides, it is very evident that the intention of the
captain of this ship is to land, and, consequently, if not today,
to-morrow at the latest, we shall make his acquaintance."

"Never mind!" said Pencroft. "It is best to know whom we have to
deal with, and I shall not be sorry to recognize that fellow's
colors!"

And, while thus speaking, the sailor never left the glass. The
day began to fade, and with the day the breeze fell also. The
brig's ensign hung in folds, and it became more and more difficult
to observe it.

"It is not the American flag," said Pencroft from time to time,
"nor the English, the red of which could be easily seen, nor the
French or German colors, nor the white flag of Russia, nor the
yellow of Spain. One would say it was all one color. Let's see: in
these seas, what do we generally meet with? The Chilean flag?—but
that is tri-color. Brazilian?—it is green. Japanese?—it is yellow
and black, while this—"

At that moment the breeze blew out the unknown flag. Ayrton
seizing the telescope which the sailor had put down, put it to his
eye, and in a hoarse voice,—

"The black flag!" he exclaimed.

And indeed the somber bunting was floating from the mast of the
brig, and they had now good reason for considering her to be a
suspicious vessel!

Had the engineer, then, been right in his presentiments? Was
this a pirate vessel? Did she scour the Pacific, competing with the
Malay proas which still infest it? For what had she come to look at
the shores of Lincoln Island? Was it to them an unknown island,
ready to become a magazine for stolen cargoes? Had she come to find
on the coast a sheltered port for the winter months? Was the
settlers' honest domain destined to be transformed into an infamous
refuge—the headquarters of the piracy of the Pacific?

All these ideas instinctively presented themselves to the
colonists' imaginations. There was no doubt, besides, of the
signification which must be attached to the color of the hoisted
flag. It was that of pirates! It was that which the "Duncan" would
have carried, had the convicts succeeded in their criminal design!
No time was lost before discussing it.

"My friends," said Cyrus Harding, "perhaps this vessel only
wishes to survey the coast of the island. Perhaps her crew will not
land. There is a chance of it. However that may be, we ought to do
everything we can to hide our presence here. The windmill on
Prospect Heights is too easily seen. Let Ayrton and Neb go and take
down the sails. We must also conceal the windows of Granite House
with thick branches. All the fires must be extinguished, so that
nothing may betray the presence of men on the island."

