This Ayrton resolved to learn at any cost, and as an hour after
his arrival the vociferations had begun to die away, and as a large
number of the convicts were already buried in a drunken sleep,
Ayrton did not hesitate to venture onto the "Speedy's" deck, which
the extinguished lanterns now left in total darkness. He hoisted
himself onto the cutwater, and by the bowsprit arrived at the
forecastle. Then, gliding among the convicts stretched here and
there, he made the round of the ship, and found that the "Speedy"
carried four guns, which would throw shot of from eight to ten
pounds in weight. He found also, on touching them that these guns
were breech-loaders. They were therefore, of modern make, easily
used, and of terrible effect.

As to the men lying on the deck, they were about ten in number,
but it was to be supposed that more were sleeping down below.
Besides, by listening to them, Ayrton had understood that there
were fifty on board. That was a large number for the six settlers
of Lincoln Island to contend with! But now, thanks to Ayrton's
devotion, Cyrus Harding would not be surprised, he would know the
strength of his adversaries, and would make his arrangements
accordingly.

There was nothing more for Ayrton to do but to return, and
render to his companions an account of the mission with which he
had charged himself, and he prepared to regain the bows of the
brig, so that he might let himself down into the water. But to this
man, whose wish was, as he had said, to do more than his duty,
there came an heroic thought. This was to sacrifice his own life,
but save the island and the colonists. Cyrus Harding evidently
could not resist fifty ruffians, all well armed, who, either by
penetrating by main force into Granite House, or by starving out
the besieged, could obtain from them what they wanted. And then he
thought of his preservers—those who had made him again a man, and
an honest mm, those to whom he owed all—murdered without pity,
their works destroyed, their island turned into a pirates' den! He
said to himself that he, Ayrton, was the principal cause of so many
disasters, since his old companion, Bob Harvey, had but realized
his own plans, and a feeling of horror took possession of him. Then
he was seized with an irresistible desire to blow up the brig and
with her, all whom she had on board. He would perish in the
explosion, but he would have done his duty.

Ayrton did not hesitate. To reach the powder-room, which is
always situated in the after-part of a vessel, was easy. There
would be no want of powder in a vessel which followed such a trade,
and a spark would be enough to destroy it in an instant.

Ayrton stole carefully along the between-decks, strewn with
numerous sleepers, overcome more by drunkenness than sleep. A
lantern was lighted at the foot of the mainmast, round which was
hung a gun-rack, furnished with weapons of all sorts.

Ayrton took a revolver from the rack, and assured himself that
it was loaded and primed. Nothing more was needed to accomplish the
work of destruction. He then glided towards the stern, so as to
arrive under the brig's poop at the powder-magazine.

It was difficult to proceed along the dimly lighted deck without
stumbling over some half-sleeping convict, who retorted by oaths
and kicks. Ayrton was, therefore, more than once obliged to halt.
But at last he arrived at the partition dividing the aftercabin,
and found the door opening into the magazine itself.

Ayrton, compelled to force it open, set to work. It was a
difficult operation to perform without noise, for he had to break a
padlock. But under his vigorous hand, the padlock broke, and the
door was open.

At that moment a hand was laid on Ayrton's shoulder.

"What are you doing here?" asked a tail man, in a harsh voice,
who, standing in the shadow, quickly threw the light of a lantern
in Ayrton's face.

Ayrton drew beck. In the rapid flash of the lantern, he had
recognized his former accomplice, Bob Harvey, who could not have
known him, as he must have thought Ayrton long since dead.
