
The engineer, with his telescope, could see that the four guns
on board were pointed at the island. They were evidently ready to
fire at a moment's notice.

In the meanwhile the "Speedy" remained silent. About thirty
pirates could be seen moving on the deck. A few more on the poop;
two others posted in the shrouds, and armed with spyglasses, were
attentively surveying the island.

Certainly, Bob Harvey and his crew would not be able easily to
give an account of what had happened during the night on board the
brig. Had this half-naked man, who had forced the door of the
powder-magazine, and with whom they had struggled, who had six
times discharged his revolver at them, who had killed one and
wounded two others, escaped their shot? Had he been able to swim to
shore? Whence did he come? What had been his object? Had his design
really been to blow up the brig, as Bob Harvey had thought? All
this must be confused enough to the convicts' minds. But what they
could no longer doubt was that the unknown island before which the
"Speedy" had cast anchor was inhabited, and that there was,
perhaps, a numerous colony ready to defend it. And yet no one was
to be seen, neither on the shore, nor on the heights. The beach
appeared to be absolutely deserted. At any rate, there was no trace
of dwellings. Had the inhabitants fled into the interior? Thus
probably the pirate captain reasoned, and doubtless, like a prudent
man, he wished to reconnoiter the locality before he allowed his
men to venture there.

During an hour and a half, no indication of attack or landing
could be observed on board the brig. Evidently Bob Harvey was
hesitating. Even with his strongest telescopes he could not have
perceived one of the settlers crouched among the rocks. It was not
even probable that his attention had been awakened by the screen of
green branches and creepers hiding the windows of Granite House,
and showing rather conspicuously on the bare rock. Indeed, how
could he imagine that a dwelling was hollowed out, at that height,
in the solid granite? From Claw Cape to the Mandible Capes, in all
the extent of Union Bay, there was nothing to lead him to suppose
that the island was or could be inhabited.

At eight o'clock, however, the colonists observed a movement on
board the "Speedy." A boat was lowered, and seven men jumped into
her. They were armed with muskets; one took the yoke-lines, four
others the oars, and the two others, kneeling in the bows, ready to
fire, reconnoitered the island. Their object was no doubt to make
an examination but not to land, for in the latter case they would
have come in larger numbers. The pirates from their look-out could
have seen that the coast was sheltered by an islet, separated from
it by a channel half a mile in width. However, it was soon evident
to Cyrus Harding, on observing the direction followed by the boat,
that they would not attempt to penetrate into the channel, but
would land on the islet.

Pencroft and Ayrton, each hidden in a narrow cleft of the rock,
saw them coming directly towards them, and waited till they were
within range.

The boat advanced with extreme caution. The oars only dipped
into the water at long intervals. It could now be seen that one of
the convicts held a lead-line in his hand, and that he wished to
fathom the depth of the channel hollowed out by the current of the
Mercy. This showed that it was Bob Harvey's intention to bring his
brig as near as possible to the coast. About thirty pirates,
scattered in the rigging, followed every movement of the boat, and
took the bearings of certain landmarks which would allow them to
approach without danger. The boat was not more than two
cables-lengths off the islet when she stopped. The man at the
tiller stood up and looked for the best place at which to land.

At that moment two shots were heard. Smoke curled up from among
the rocks of the islet. The man at the helm and the man with the
lead-line fell backwards into the boat. Ayrton's and Pencroft's
balls had struck them both at the same moment.

Almost immediately a louder report was heard, a cloud of smoke
issued from the brig's side, and a ball, striking the summit of the
rock which sheltered Ayrton and Pencroft, made it fly in splinters,
but the two marksmen remained unhurt.

Horrible imprecations burst from the boat, which immediately
continued its way. The man who had been at the tiller was replaced
by one of his comrades, and the oars were rapidly plunged into the
water. However, instead of returning on board as might have been
expected, the boat coasted along the islet, so as to round its
southern point. The pirates pulled vigorously at their oars that
they might get out of range of the bullets.

