
The situation was evidently becoming very dangerous for Pencroft
and Ayrton, and they saw that they must regain the mainland.

However, they waited till the first boat was within range, when
two well- directed balls threw its crew into disorder. Then,
Pencroft and Ayrton, abandoning their posts, under fire from the
dozen muskets, ran across the islet at full speed, jumped into
their boat, crossed the channel at the moment the second boat
reached the southern end, and ran to hide themselves in the
Chimneys.

They had scarcely rejoined Cyrus Harding and Herbert, before the
islet was overrun with pirates in every direction. Almost at the
same moment, fresh reports resounded from the Mercy station, to
which the second boat was rapidly approaching. Two, out of the
eight men who manned her, were mortally wounded by Gideon Spilett
and Neb, and the boat herself, carried irresistibly onto the reefs,
was stove in at the mouth of the Mercy. But the six survivors,
holding their muskets above their heads to preserve them from
contact with the water, managed to land on the right bank of the
river. Then, finding they were exposed to the fire of the ambush
there, they fled in the direction of Flotsam Point, out of range of
the balls.

The actual situation was this: on the islet were a dozen
convicts, of whom some were no doubt wounded, but who had still a
boat at their disposal; on the island were six, but who could not
by any possibility reach Granite House, as they could not cross the
river, all the bridges being raised.

"Hallo," exclaimed Pencroft as he rushed into the Chimneys,
"hallo, captain! What do you think of it, now?"

"I think," answered the engineer, "that the combat will now take
a new form, for it cannot be supposed that the convicts will be so
foolish as to remain in a position so unfavorable for them!"

"They won't cross the channel," said the sailor. "Ayrton and Mr.
Spilett's rifles are there to prevent them. You know that they
carry more than a mile!"

"No doubt," replied Herbert; "but what can two rifles do against
the brig's guns?"

"Well, the brig isn't in the channel yet, I fancy!" said
Pencroft.

"But suppose she does come there?" said Harding.

