And Cyrus Harding, hurrying away the reporter and Ayrton, joined
Pencroft, Neb, and Herbert on the beach.

Nothing could be seen of the brig, not even her masts. After
having been raised by the water-spout, she had fallen on her side,
and had sunk in that position, doubtless in consequence of some
enormous leak. But as in that place the channel was not more than
twenty feet in depth, it was certain that the sides of the
submerged brig would reappear at low water.

A few things from the wreck floated on the surface of the water,
a raft could be seen consisting of spare spars, coops of poultry
with their occupants still living, boxes and barrels, which
gradually came to the surface, after having escaped through the
hatchways, but no pieces of the wreck appeared, neither planks from
the deck, nor timber from the hull,— which rendered the sudden
disappearance of the "Speedy" perfectly inexplicable.

However, the two masts, which had been broken and escaped from
the shrouds and stays came up, and with their sails, some furled
and the others spread. But it was not necessary to wait for the
tide to bring up these riches, and Ayrton and Pencroft jumped into
the boat with the intention of towing the pieces of wreck either to
the beach or to the islet. But just as they were shoving off, an
observation from Gideon Spilett arrested them.

"What about those six convicts who disembarked on the right bank
of the Mercy?" said he.

In fact, it would not do to forget that the six men whose boat
had gone to pieces on the rocks had landed at Flotsam Point.

They looked in that direction. None of the fugitives were
visible. It was probable that, having seen their vessel engulfed in
the channel, they had fled into the interior of the island.

"We will deal with them later," said Harding. "As they are
armed, they will still be dangerous; but as it is six against six,
the chances are equal. To the most pressing business first."

Ayrton and Pencroft pulled vigorously towards the wreck.

The sea was calm and the tide very high, as there had been a new
moon but two days before. A whole hour at least would elapse before
the hull of the brig could emerge from the water of the
channel.

Ayrton and Pencroft were able to fasten the masts and spars by
means of ropes, the ends of which were carried to the beach. There,
by the united efforts of the settlers the pieces of wreck were
hauled up. Then the boat picked up all that was floating, coops,
barrels, and boxes, which were immediately carried to the
Chimneys.
