
At any rate, the settlers saw at once, with extreme
satisfaction, that the brig possessed a very varied cargo—an
assortment of all sorts of articles, utensils, manufactured goods,
and tools—such as the ships which make the great coasting-trade of
Polynesia are usually laden with. It was probable that they would
find a little of everything, and they agreed that it was exactly
what was necessary for the colony of Lincoln Island.

However—and Cyrus Harding observed it in silent astonishment—not
only, as has been said, had the hull of the brig enormously
suffered from the shock, whatever it was, that had occasioned the
catastrophe, but the interior arrangements had been destroyed,
especially towards the bows. Partitions and stanchions were
smashed, as if some tremendous shell had burst in the interior of
the brig. The colonists could easily go fore and aft, after having
removed the cases as they were extricated. They were not heavy
bales, which would have been difficult to remove, but simple
packages, of which the stowage, besides, was no longer
recognizable.

The colonists then reached the stern of the brig—the part
formerly surmounted by the poop. It was there that, following
Ayrton's directions, they must look for the powder-magazine. Cyrus
Harding thought that it had not exploded; that it was possible some
barrels might be saved, and that the powder, which is usually
enclosed in metal coverings might not have suffered from contact
with the water.

This, in fact, was just what had happened. They extricated from
among a large number of shot twenty barrels, the insides of which
were lined with copper. Pencroft was convinced by the evidence of
his own eyes that the destruction of the "Speedy" could not be
attributed to an explosion. That part of the hull in which the
magazine was situated was, moreover, that which had suffered
least.

"It may be so," said the obstinate sailor; "but as to a rock,
there is not one in the channel!"

"Then, how did it happen?" asked Herbert.

"I don't know," answered Pencroft, "Captain Harding doesn't
know, and nobody knows or ever will know!"

Several hours had passed during these researches, and the tide
began to flow. Work must be suspended for the present. There was no
fear of the brig being carried away by the sea, for she was already
fixed as firmly as if moored by her anchors.

They could, therefore, without inconvenience, wait until the
next day to resume operations; but, as to the vessel itself, she
was doomed, and it would be best to hasten to save the remains of
her hull, as she would not be long in disappearing in the
quicksands of the channel.

It was now five o'clock in the evening. It had been a hard day's
work for the men. They ate with good appetite, and notwithstanding
their fatigue, they could not resist, after dinner, their desire of
inspecting the cases which composed the cargo of the "Speedy."

