Most of them contained clothes, which, as may be believed, was
well received. There were enough to clothe a whole colony—linen for
every one's use, shoes for every one's feet.

"We are too rich!" exclaimed Pencroft, "But what are we going to
do with all this?"

And every moment burst forth the hurrahs of the delighted sailor
when he caught sight of the barrels of gunpowder, firearms and
sidearms, balls of cotton, implements of husbandry, carpenter's,
joiner's, and blacksmith's tools, and boxes of all kinds of seeds,
not in the least injured by their short sojourn in the water. Ah,
two years before, how these things would have been prized! And now,
even though the industrious colonists had provided themselves with
tools, these treasures would find their use.

There was no want of space in the store-rooms of Granite House,
but that daytime would not allow them to stow away the whole. It
would not do also to forget that the six survivors of the
"Speedy's" crew had landed on the island, for they were in all
probability scoundrels of the deepest dye, and it was necessary
that the colonists should be on their guard against them. Although
the bridges over the Mercy were raised, the convicts would not be
stopped by a river or a stream and, rendered desperate, these
wretches would be capable of anything.

They would see later what plan it would be best to follow; but
in the meantime it was necessary to mount guard over cases and
packages heaped up near the Chimneys, and thus the settlers
employed themselves in turn during the night.

The morning came, however, without the convicts having attempted
any attack. Master Jup and Top, on guard at the foot of Granite
House, would have quickly given the alarm. The three following
day—the 19th, 20th, and 21st of October—were employed in saving
everything of value, or of any use whatever, either from the cargo
or rigging of the brig. At low tide they overhauled the hold—at
high tide they stowed away the rescued articles. A great part of
the copper sheathing had been torn from the hull, which every day
sank lower. But before the sand had swallowed the heavy things
which had fallen through the bottom, Ayrton and Pencroft, diving to
the bed of the channel, recovered the chains and anchors of the
brig, the iron of her ballast, and even four guns, which, floated
by means of empty casks, were brought to shore.

It may be seen that the arsenal of the colony had gained by the
wreck, as well as the storerooms of Granite House. Pencroft, always
enthusiastic in his projects, already spoke of constructing a
battery to command the channel and the mouth of the river. With
four guns, he engaged to prevent any fleet, "however powerful it
might be," from venturing into the waters of Lincoln Island!

In the meantime, when nothing remained of the brig but a useless
hulk, bad weather came on, which soon finished her. Cyrus Harding
had intended to blow her up, so as to collect the remains on the
shore, but a strong gale from the northeast and a heavy sea
compelled him to economize his powder.

In fact, on the night of the 23rd, the hull entirely broke up,
and some of the wreck was cast up on the beach.

As to the papers on board, it is useless to say that, although
he carefully searched the lockers of the poop, Harding did not
discover any trace of them. The pirates had evidently destroyed
everything that concerned either the captain or the owners of the
"Speedy," and, as the name of her port was not painted on her
counter, there was nothing which would tell them her nationality.
However, by the shape of her boats Ayrton and Pencroft believed
that the brig was of English build.

A week after the castrophe—or, rather, after the fortunate,
though inexplicable, event to which the colony owed its
preservation—nothing more could be seen of the vessel, even at low
tide. The wreck had disappeared, and Granite House was enriched by
nearly all it had contained.
