The sailor had at first lighted a fire in the hut, which was not
wanting in things necessary for life. Maple sugar, medicinal
plants, the same which the lad had gathered on the banks of Lake
Grant, enabled them to make some refreshing drinks, which they gave
him without his taking any notice of it. His fever was extremely
high, and all that day and night passed without his becoming
conscious.

Herbert's life hung on a thread, and this thread might break at
any moment. The next day, the 12th of November, the hopes of
Harding and his companions slightly revived. Herbert had come out
of his long stupor. He opened his eyes, he recognized Cyrus
Harding, the reporter, and Pencroft. He uttered two or three words.
He did not know what had happened. They told him, and Spilett
begged him to remain perfectly still, telling him that his life was
not in danger, and that his wounds would heal in a few days.
However, Herbert scarcely suffered at all, and the cold water with
which they were constantly bathed, prevented any inflammation of
the wounds. The suppuration was established in a regular way, the
fever did not increase, and it might now be hoped that this
terrible wound would not involve any catastrophe. Pencroft felt the
swelling of his heart gradually subside. He was like a sister of
mercy. like a mother by the bed of her child.

Herbert dozed again, but his sleep appeared more natural.

"Tell me again that you hope, Mr. Spilett," said Pencroft. "Tell
me again that you will save Herbert!"

"Yes, we will save him!" replied the reporter. "The wound is
serious, and, perhaps, even the ball has traversed the lungs, but
the perforation of this organ is not fatal."

"God bless you!" answered Pencroft.

As may be believed, during the four-and-twenty hours they had
been in the corral, the colonists had no other thought than that of
nursing Herbert. They did not think either of the danger which
threatened them should the convicts return, or of the precautions
to be taken for the future.

But on this day, while Pencroft watched by the sick-bed, Cyrus
Harding and the reporter consulted as to what it would be best to
do.

First of all they examined the corral. There was not a trace of
Ayrton. Had the unhappy man been dragged away by his former
accomplices? Had he resisted, and been overcome in the struggle?
This last supposition was only too probable. Gideon Spilett, at the
moment he scaled the palisade, had clearly seen some one of the
convicts running along the southern spur of Mount Franklin, towards
whom Top had sprung. It was one of those whose object had been so
completely defeated by the rocks at the mouth of the Mercy.
Besides, the one killed by Harding, and whose body was found
outside the enclosure, of course belonged to Bob Harvey's crew.

As to the corral, it had not suffered any damage. The gates were
closed, and the animals had not been able to disperse in the
forest. Nor could they see traces of any struggle, any devastation,
either in the hut, or in the palisade. The ammunition only, with
which Ayrton had been supplied, had disappeared with him.

"The unhappy man has been surprised," said Harding, "and as he
was a man to defend himself, he must have been overpowered."
