


Chapter

8

&#160;


So the convicts were still there, watching the corral, and
determined to kill the settlers one after the other. There was
nothing to be done but to treat them as wild beasts. But great
precautions must be taken, for just now the wretches had the
advantage on their side, seeing, and not being seen, being able to
surprise by the suddenness of their attack, yet not to be surprised
themselves. Harding made arrangements, therefore, for living in the
corral, of which the provisions would last for a tolerable length
of time. Ayrton's house had been provided with all that was
necessary for existence, and the convicts, scared by the arrival of
the settlers, had not had time to pillage it. It was probable, as
Gideon Spilett observed, that things had occurred as follows:

The six convicts, disembarking on the island, had followed the
southern shore, and after having traversed the double shore of the
Serpentine Peninsula, not being inclined to venture into the Far
West woods, they had reached the mouth of Falls River. From this
point, by following the right bank of the watercourse, they would
arrive at the spurs of Mount Franklin, among which they would
naturally seek a retreat, and they could not have been long in
discovering the corral, then uninhabited. There they had regularly
installed themselves, awaiting the moment to put their abominable
schemes into execution. Ayrton's arrival had surprised them, but
they had managed to overpower the unfortunate man, and—the rest may
be easily imagined!

Now, the convicts,—reduced to five, it is true, but well
armed,—were roaming the woods, and to venture there was to expose
themselves to their attacks, which could be neither guarded against
nor prevented.

"Wait! There is nothing else to be done!" repeated Cyrus
Harding. "When Herbert is cured, we can organize a general battle
of the island, and have satisfaction of these convicts. That will
be the object of our grand expedition at the same time—"

"As the search for our mysterious protector," added Gideon
Spilett, finishing the engineer's sentence. "An, it must be
acknowledged, my dear Cyrus, that this time his protection was
wanting at the very moment when it was most necessary to us!"

"Who knows?" replied the engineer.

