In a few hours Herbert was much calmer. The colonists could now
discuss this incident. The intervention of the stranger was more
evident than ever. But how had he been able to penetrate during the
night into Granite House? It was inexplicable, and, in truth, the
proceedings of the genius of the island were not less mysterious
than was that genius himself. During this day the sulphate of
quinine was administered to Herbert every three hours.

The next day some improvement in Herbert's condition was
apparent. Certainly, he was not out of danger, intermittent fevers
being subject to frequent and dangerous relapses, but the most
assiduous care was bestowed on him. And besides, the specific was
at hand; nor, doubtless, was he who had brought it far distant! And
the hearts of all were animated by returning hope.

This hope was not disappointed. Ten days after, on the 20th of
December, Herbert's convalescence commenced.

He was still weak, and strict diet had been imposed upon him,
but no access of fever supervened. And then, the poor boy submitted
with such docility to all the prescriptions ordered him! He longed
so to get well!

Pencroft was as a man who has been drawn up from the bottom of
an abyss. Fits of joy approaching delirium seized him. When the
time for the third attack had passed by, he nearly suffocated the
reporter in his embrace. Since then, he always called him Dr.
Spilett.

The real doctor, however, remained undiscovered.

"We will find him!" repeated the sailor.

Certainly, this man, whoever he was, might expect a somewhat too
energetic embrace from the worthy Pencroft!

The month of December ended, and with it the year 1867, during
which the colonists of Lincoln Island had of late been so severely
tried. They commenced the year 1868 with magnificent weather, great
heat, and a tropical temperature, delightfully cooled by the
sea-breeze. Herbert's recovery progressed, and from his bed, placed
near one of the windows of Granite House, he could inhale the fresh
air, charged with ozone, which could not fail to restore his
health. His appetite returned, and what numberless delicate, savory
little dishes Neb prepared for him!

"It is enough to make one wish to have a fever oneself!" said
Pencroft.

During all this time, the convicts did not once appear in the
vicinity of Granite House. There was no news of Ayrton, and though
the engineer and Herbert still had some hopes of finding him again,
their companions did not doubt but that the unfortunate man had
perished. However, this uncertainty could not last, and when once
the lad should have recovered, the expedition, the result of which
must be so important, would be undertaken. But they would have to
wait a month, perhaps, for all the strength of the colony must be
put into requisition to obtain satisfaction from the convicts.
