
However, Herbert's convalescence progressed rapidly. The
congestion of the liver had disappeared, and his wounds might be
considered completely healed.

During the month of January, important work was done on the
plateau of Prospect Heights; but it consisted solely in saving as
much as was possible from the devastated crops, either of corn or
vegetables. The grain and the plants were gathered, so as to
provide a new harvest for the approaching half-season. With regard
to rebuilding the poultry-yard, wall, or stables, Cyrus Harding
preferred to wait. While he and his companions were in pursuit of
the convicts, the latter might very probably pay another visit to
the plateau, and it would be useless to give them an opportunity of
recommencing their work of destruction. when the island should be
cleared of these miscreants, they would set about rebuilding. The
young convalescent began to get up in the second week of January,
at first for one hour a day, then two, then three. His strength
visibly returned, so vigorous was his constitution. He was now
eighteen years of age. He was tall, and promised to become a man of
noble and commanding presence. From this time his recovery, while
still requiring care,—and Dr. Spilett was very strict,—made rapid
progress. Towards the end of the month, Herbert was already walking
about on Prospect Heights, and the beach.

He derived, from several sea-baths, which he took in company
with Pencroft and Neb, the greatest possible benefit. Cyrus Harding
thought he might now settle the day for their departure, for which
the 15th of February was fixed. The nights, very clear at this time
of year, would be favorable to the researches they intended to make
all over the island.

The necessary preparations for this exploration were now
commenced, and were important, for the colonists had sworn not to
return to Granite House until their twofold object had been
achieved; on the one hand, to exterminate the convicts, and rescue
Ayrton, if he was still living; on the other, to discover who it
was that presided so effectually over the fortunes of the
colony.

Of Lincoln Island, the settlers knew thoroughly all the eastern
coast from Claw Cape to the Mandible Capes, the extensive Tadorn
Marsh, the neighborhood of Lake Grant, Jacamar Wood, between the
road to the corral and the Mercy, the courses of the Mercy and Red
Creek, and lastly, the spurs of Mount Franklin, among which the
corral had been established.

They had explored, though only in an imperfect manner, the vast
shore of Washington Bay from Claw Cape to Reptile End, the woody
and marshy border of the west coast, and the interminable downs,
ending at the open mouth of Shark Gulf. But they had in no way
surveyed the woods which covered the Serpentine Peninsula, all to
the right of the Mercy, the left bank of Falls River, and the
wilderness of spurs and valleys which supported three quarters of
the base of Mount Franklin, to the east, the north, and the west,
and where doubtless many secret retreats existed. Consequently,
many millions of acres of the island had still escaped their
investigations.

It was, therefore, decided that the expedition should be carried
through the Far West, so as to include all that region situated on
the right of the Mercy.

It might, perhaps, be better worth while to go direct to the
corral, where it might be supposed that the convicts had again
taken refuge, either to pillage or to establish themselves there.
But either the devastation of the corral would have been an
accomplished fact by this time, and it would be too late to prevent
it, or it had been the convicts' interest to entrench themselves
there, and there would be still time to go and turn them out on
their return.

Therefore, after some discussion, the first plan was adhered to,
and the settlers resolved to proceed through the wood to Reptile
End. They would make their way with their hatchets, and thus lay
the first draft of a road which would place Granite House in
communication with the end of the peninsula for a length of from
sixteen to seventeen miles.

The cart was in good condition. The onagers, well rested, could
go a long journey. Provisions, camp effects, a portable stove, and
various utensils were packed in the cart, as also weapons and
ammunition, carefully chosen from the now complete arsenal of
Granite House. But it was necessary to remember that the convicts
were, perhaps, roaming about the woods, and that in the midst of
these thick forests a shot might quickly be fired and received. It
was therefore resolved that the little band of settlers should
remain together and not separate under any pretext whatever.

