
The exploration was commenced at daybreak on the 19th of
February, and lasted an entire week. The base of the mountain, with
its spurs and their numberless ramifications, formed a labyrinth of
valleys and elevations. It was evident that there, in the depths of
these narrow gorges, perhaps even in the interior of Mount Franklin
itself, was the proper place to pursue their researches. No part of
the island could have been more suitable to conceal a dwelling
whose occupant wished to remain unknown. But so irregular was the
formation of the valleys that Cyrus Harding was obliged to conduct
the exploration in a strictly methodical manner.

The colonists first visited the valley opening to the south of
the volcano, and which first received the waters of Falls River.
There Ayrton showed them the cavern where the convicts had taken
refuge, and in which he had been imprisoned until his removal to
the corral. This cavern was just as Ayrton had left it. They found
there a considerable quantity of ammunition and provisions,
conveyed thither by the convicts in order to form a reserve.

The whole of the valley bordering on the cave, shaded by fir and
other trees, was thoroughly explored, and on turning the point of
the southwestern spur, the colonists entered a narrower gorge
similar to the picturesque columns of basalt on the coast. Here the
trees were fewer. Stones took the place of grass. Goats and musmons
gambolled among the rocks. Here began the barren part of the
island. It could already be seen that, of the numerous valleys
branching off at the base of Mount Franklin, three only were wooded
and rich in pasturage like that of the corral, which bordered on
the west on the Falls River valley, and on the east on the Red
Creek valley. These two streams, which lower down became rivers by
the absorption of several tributaries, were formed by all the
springs of the mountain and thus caused the fertility of its
southern part. As to the Mercy, it was more directly fed from ample
springs concealed under the cover of Jacamar Wood, and it was by
springs of this nature, spreading in a thousand streamlets, that
the soil of the Serpentine Peninsula was watered.

Now, of these three well-watered valleys, either might have
served as a retreat to some solitary who would have found there
everything necessary for life. But the settlers had already
explored them, and in no part had they discovered the presence of
man.

Was it then in the depths of those barren gorges, in the midst
of the piles of rock, in the rugged northern ravines, among the
streams of lava, that this dwelling and its occupant would be
found?

The northern part of Mount Franklin was at its base composed
solely of two valleys, wide, not very deep, without any appearance
of vegetation, strewn with masses of rock, paved with lava, and
varied with great blocks of mineral. This region required a long
and careful exploration. It contained a thousand cavities,
comfortless no doubt, but perfectly concealed and difficult of
access.

The colonists even visited dark tunnels, dating from the
volcanic period, still black from the passage of the fire, and
penetrated into the depths of the mountain. They traversed these
somber galleries, waving lighted torches; they examined the
smallest excavations; they sounded the shallowest depths, but all
was dark and silent. It did not appear that the foot of man had
ever before trodden these ancient passages, or that his arm had
ever displaced one of these blocks, which remained as the volcano
had cast them up above the waters, at the time of the submersion of
the island.

However, although these passages appeared to be absolutely
deserted, and the obscurity was complete, Cyrus Harding was obliged
to confess that absolute silence did not reign there.

On arriving at the end of one of these gloomy caverns, extending
several hundred feet into the interior of the mountain, he was
surprised to hear a deep rumbling noise, increased in intensity by
the sonorousness of the rocks.

Gideon Spilett, who accompanied him, also heard these distant
mutterings, which indicated a revivification of the subterranean
fires. Several times both listened, and they agreed that some
chemical process was taking place in the bowels of the earth.

