
"No," answered Harding, "not a vapor escapes from the crater,
for it was only yesterday that I attentively surveyed the summit.
But it is probable that at the lower part of the chimney, time may
have accumulated rocks, cinders, hardened lava, and that this valve
of which I spoke, may at any time become overcharged. But at the
first serious effort, every obstacle will disappear, and you may be
certain, my dear Spilett, that neither the island, which is the
boiler, nor the volcano, which is the chimney, will burst under the
pressure of gas. Nevertheless, I repeat, it would be better that
there should not be an eruption."

"And yet we are not mistaken," remarked the reporter.
"Mutterings can be distinctly heard in the very bowels of the
volcano!"

"You are right," said the engineer, again listening attentively.
"There can be no doubt of it. A commotion is going on there, of
which we can neither estimate the importance nor the ultimate
result."

Cyrus Harding and Spilett, on coming out, rejoined their
companions, to whom they made known the state of affairs.

"Very well!" cried Pencroft, "The volcano wants to play his
pranks! Let him try, if he likes! He will find his master!"

"Who?" asked Neb.

"Our good genius, Neb, our good genius, who will shut his mouth
for him, if he so much as pretends to open it!"

As may be seen, the sailor's confidence in the tutelary deity of
his island was absolute, and, certainly, the occult power,
manifested until now in so many inexplicable ways, appeared to be
unlimited; but also it knew how to escape the colonists' most
minute researches, for, in spite of all their efforts, in spite of
the more than zeal,—the obstinacy,—with which they carried on their
exploration, the retreat of the mysterious being could not be
discovered.

From the 19th to the 20th of February the circle of
investigation was extended to all the northern region of Lincoln
Island, whose most secret nooks were explored. The colonists even
went the length of tapping every rock. The search was extended to
the extreme verge of the mountain. It was explored thus to the very
summit of the truncated cone terminating the first row of rocks,
then to the upper ridge of the enormous hat, at the bottom of which
opened the crater.

They did more; they visited the gulf, now extinct, but in whose
depths the rumbling could be distinctly heard. However, no sign of
smoke or vapor, no heating of the rock, indicated an approaching
eruption. But neither there, nor in any other part of Mount
Franklin, did the colonists find any traces of him of whom they
were in search.

