As the "Bonadventure" no longer existed, six months at least
would be required for the construction of a new vessel. Now winter
was approaching, and the voyage would not be made before the
following spring.

"We have time to get everything ready for the fine season,"
remarked the engineer, who was consulting with Pencroft about these
matters. "I think, therefore, my friend, that since we have to
rebuild our vessel it will be best to give her larger dimensions.
The arrival of the Scotch yacht at Tabor Island is very uncertain.
It may even be that, having arrived several months ago, she has
again sailed after having vainly searched for some trace of Ayrton.
Will it not then he best to build a ship which, if necessary, could
take us either to the Polynesian Archipelago or to New Zealand?
What do you think?"

"I think, captain," answered the sailor; "I think that you are
as capable of building a large vessel as a small one. Neither the
wood nor the tools are wanting. It is only a question of time."

"And how many months would be required to build a vessel of from
250 to 300 tons?" asked Harding.

"Seven or eight months at least," replied Pencroft. "But it must
not be forgotten that winter is drawing near, and that in severe
frost wood is difficult to work. We must calculate on several weeks
delay, and if our vessel is ready by next November we may think
ourselves very lucky."

"Well," replied Cyrus Harding, "that will be exactly the most
favorable time for undertaking a voyage of any importance, either
to Tabor Island or to a more distant land."

"So it will, captain," answered the sailor. "Make out your plans
then; the workmen are ready, and I imagine that Ayrton can lend us
a good helping hand."

The colonists, having been consulted, approved the engineer's
plan, and it was, indeed, the best thing to be done. It is true
that the construction of a ship of from two to three hundred tons
would be great labor, but the colonists had confidence in
themselves, justified by their previous success.

Cyrus Harding then busied himself in drawing the plan of the
vessel and making the model. During this time his companions
employed themselves in felling and carting trees to furnish the
ribs, timbers, and planks. The forest of the Far West supplied the
best oaks and elms. They took advantage of the opening already made
on their last excursion to form a practicable road, which they
named the Far West Road, and the trees were carried to the
Chimneys, where the dockyard was established. As to the road in
question, the choice of trees had rendered its direction somewhat
capricious, but at the same time it facilitated the access to a
large part of the Serpentine Peninsula.

It was important that the trees should be quickly felled and cut
up, for they could not be used while yet green, and some time was
necessary to allow them to get seasoned. The carpenters, therefore,
worked vigorously during the month of April, which was troubled
only by a few equinoctial gales of some violence. Master Jup aided
them dexterously, either by climbing to the top of a tree to fasten
the ropes or by lending his stout shoulders to carry the lopped
trunks.

All this timber was piled up under a large shed, built near the
Chimneys, and there awaited the time for use.
