Shipbuilding was interrupted for a week for the harvest, the
haymaking, and the gathering in of the different crops on the
plateau. This work finished, every moment was devoted to finishing
the schooner. When night came the workmen were really quite
exhausted. So as not to lose any time they had changed the hours
for their meals; they dined at twelve o'clock, and only had their
supper when daylight failed them. They then ascended to Granite
House, when they were always ready to go to bed.

Sometimes, however, when the conversation bore on some
interesting subject the hour for sleep was delayed for a time. The
colonists then spoke of the future, and talked willingly of the
changes which a voyage in the schooner to inhabited lands would
make in their situation. But always, in the midst of these plans,
prevailed the thought of a subsequent return to Lincoln Island.
Never would they abandon this colony, founded with so much labor
and with such success, and to which a communication with America
would afford a fresh impetus. Pencroft and Neb especially hoped to
end their days there.

"Herbert," said the sailor, "you will never abandon Lincoln
Island?"

"Never, Pencroft, and especially if you make up your mind to
stay there."

"That was made up long ago, my boy," answered Pencroft. "I shall
expect you. You will bring me your wife and children, and I shall
make jolly chaps of your youngsters!"

"That's agreed," replied Herbert, laughing and blushing at the
same time.

"And you, Captain Harding," resumed Pencroft enthusiastically,
"you will be still the governor of the island! Ah, how many
inhabitants could it support? Ten thousand at least!"

They talked in this way, allowing Pencroft to run on, and at
last the reporter actually started a newspaper—the New Lincoln
Herald!

So is man's heart. The desire to perform a work which will
endure, which will survive him, is the origin of his superiority
over all other living creatures here below. It is this which has
established his dominion, and this it is which justifies it, over
all the world.

After that, who knows if Jup and Top had not themselves their
little dream of the future.

Ayrton silently said to himself that he would like to see Lord
Glenarvan again and show himself to all restored.
