
The captain thanked the colonists by a sign, and requested them
to leave him for some hours. Gideon Spilett wished to remain near
him, in the event of a crisis coming on, but the dying man refused,
saying, "I shall live until to-morrow, sir."

All left the saloon, passed through the library and the
dining-room, and arrived forward, in the machine-room where the
electrical apparatus was established, which supplied not only heat
and light, but the mechanical power of the "Nautilus."

The "Nautilus" was a masterpiece containing masterpieces with
itself, and the engineer was struck with astonishment.

The colonists mounted the platform, which rose seven or eight
feet above the water. There they beheld a thick glass lenticular
covering, which protected a kind of large eye, from which flashed
forth light. Behind this eye was apparently a cabin containing the
wheels of the rudder, and in which was stationed the helmsman, when
he navigated the "Nautilus" over the bed of the ocean, which the
electric rays would evidently light up to a considerable
distance.

Cyrus Harding and his companions remained for a time silent, for
they were vividly impressed by what they had just seen and heard,
and their hearts were deeply touched by the thought that he whose
arm had so often aided them, the protector whom they had known but
a few hours, was at the point of death.

Whatever might be the judgment pronounced by posterity upon the
events of this, so to speak, extra-human existence, the character
of Prince Dakkar would ever remain as one of those whose memory
time can never efface.

"What a man!" said Pencroft. "Is it possible that he can have
lived at the bottom of the sea? And it seems to me that perhaps he
has not found peace there any more than elsewhere!"

"The 'Nautilus,'" observed Ayrton, "might have enabled us to
leave Lincoln Island and reach some inhabited country."

"Good Heavens!" exclaimed Pencroft, "I for one would never risk
myself in such a craft. To sail on the seas, good, but under the
seas, never!"

"I believe, Pencroft," answered the reporter, "that the
navigation of a submarine vessel such as the 'Nautilus' ought to be
very easy, and that we should soon become accustomed to it. There
would be no storms, no lee-shore to fear. At some feet beneath the
surface the waters of the ocean are as calm as those of a
lake."

