It had been agreed that the construction of the vessel should be
actively pushed forward, and Cyrus Harding more than ever devoted
his time and labor to this object. It was impossible to divine what
future lay before them. Evidently the advantage to the colonists
would be great of having at their disposal a substantial vessel,
capable of keeping the sea even in heavy weather, and large enough
to attempt, in case of need, a voyage of some duration. Even if,
when their vessel should be completed, the colonists should not
resolve to leave Lincoln Island as yet, in order to gain either one
of the Polynesian Archipelagoes of the Pacific or the shores of New
Zealand, they might at least, sooner or later, proceed to Tabor
Island, to leave there the notice relating to Ayrton. This was a
precaution rendered indispensable by the possibility of the Scotch
yacht reappearing in those seas, and it was of the highest
importance that nothing should be neglected on this point.

The works were then resumed. Cyrus Harding, Pencroft, and
Ayrton, assisted by Neb, Gideon Spilett, and Herbert, except when
unavoidably called off by other necessary occupations, worked
without cessation. It was important that the new vessel should be
ready in five months—that is to say, by the beginning of March—if
they wished to visit Tabor Island before the equinoctial gales
rendered the voyage impracticable. Therefore the carpenters lost
not a moment. Moreover, it was unnecessary to manufacture rigging,
that of the "Speedy" having been saved entire, so that the hull
only of the vessel needed to be constructed.

The end of the year 1868 found them occupied by these important
labors, to the exclusion of almost all others. At the expiration of
two months and a half the ribs had been set up and the first planks
adjusted. It was already evident that the plans made by Cyrus
Harding were admirable, and that the vessel would behave well at
sea.

Pencroft brought to the task a devouring energy, and would even
grumble when one or the other abandoned the carpenter's axe for the
gun of the hunter. It was nevertheless necessary to keep up the
stores of Granite House, in view of the approaching winter. But
this did not satisfy Pencroft. The brave, honest sailor was not
content when the workmen were not at the dockyard. when this
happened he grumbled vigorously, and, by way of venting his
feelings, did the work of six men.

The weather was very unfavorable during the whole of the summer
season. For some days the heat was overpowering, and the
atmosphere, saturated with electricity, was only cleared by violent
storms. It was rarely that the distant growling of the thunder
could not be heard, like a low but incessant murmur, such as is
produced in the equatorial regions of the globe.

The 1st of January, 1869, was signalized by a storm of extreme
violence, and the thunder burst several times over the island.
Large trees were struck by the electric fluid and shattered, and
among others one of those gigantic nettle-trees which had shaded
the poultry-yard at the southern extremity of the lake. Had this
meteor any relation to the phenomena going on in the bowels of the
earth? Was there any connection between the commotion of the
atmosphere and that of the interior of the earth? Cyrus Harding was
inclined to think that such was the case, for the development of
these storms was attended by the renewal of volcanic symptoms.

It was on the 3rd of January that Herbert, having ascended at
daybreak to the plateau of Prospect Heights to harness one of the
onagers, perceived an enormous hat-shaped cloud rolling from the
summit of the volcano.

Herbert immediately apprised the colonists, who at once joined
him in watching the summit of Mount Franklin.

"Ah!" exclaimed Pencroft, "those are not vapors this time! It
seems to me that the giant is not content with breathing; he must
smoke!"

This figure of speech employed by the sailor exactly expressed
the changes going on at the mouth of the volcano. Already for three
months had the crater emitted vapors more or less dense, but which
were as yet produced only by an internal ebullition of mineral
substances. But now the vapors were replaced by a thick smoke,
rising in the form of a grayish column, more than three hundred
feet in width at its base, and which spread like an immense
mushroom to a height of from seven to eight hundred feet above the
summit of the mountain.

"The fire is in the chimney," observed Gideon Spilett.
