
"And we can't put it out!" replied Herbert.

"The volcano ought to be swept," observed Neb, who spoke as if
perfectly serious.

"Well said, Neb!" cried Pencroft, with a shout of laughter; "and
you'll undertake the job, no doubt?"

Cyrus Harding attentively observed the dense smoke emitted by
Mount Franklin, and even listened, as if expecting to hear some
distant muttering. Then, turning towards his companions, from whom
he had gone somewhat apart, he said,—

"The truth is, my friends, we must not conceal from ourselves
that an important change is going forward. The volcanic substances
are no longer in a state of ebullition, they have caught fire, and
we are undoubtedly menaced by an approaching eruption."

"Well, captain," said Pencroft, "we shall witness the eruption;
and if it is a good one, we'll applaud it. I don't see that we need
concern ourselves further about the matter."

"It may be so," replied Cyrus Harding, "for the ancient track of
the lava is still open; and thanks to this, the crater has hitherto
overflowed towards the north. And yet—"

"And yet, as we can derive no advantage from an eruption, it
might be better it should not take place," said the reporter.

"Who knows?" answered the sailor. "Perhaps there may be some
valuable substance in this volcano, which it will spout forth, and
which we may turn to good account!"

Cyrus Harding shook his head with the air of a man who augured
no good from the phenomenon whose development had been so sudden.
He did not regard so lightly as Pencroft the results of an
eruption. If the lava, in consequence of the position of the
crater, did not directly menace the wooded and cultivated parts of
the island, other complications might present themselves. In fact,
eruptions are not unfrequently accompanied by earthquakes; and an
island of the nature of Lincoln Island, formed of substances so
varied, basalt on one side, granite on the other, lava on the
north, rich soil on the south, substances which consequently could
not be firmly attached to each other, would be exposed to the risk
of disintegration. Although, therefore, the spreading of the
volcanic matter might not constitute a serious danger, any movement
of the terrestrial structure which should shake the island might
entail the gravest consequences.

