"How so, my dear Cyrus?'

"I am not certain. I must consider. I must visit the mountain.
In a few days I shall learn more on this point."

Gideon Spilett said no more, and soon, in spite of the
explosions of the volcano, whose intensity increased, and which
were repeated by the echoes of the island, the inhabitants of
Granite House were sleeping soundly.

Three days passed by—the 4th, 5th, and 6th of January. The
construction of the vessel was diligently continued, and without
offering further explanations the engineer pushed forward the work
with all his energy. Mount Franklin was now hooded by a somber
cloud of sinister aspect, and, amid the flames, vomiting forth
incandescent rocks, some of which fell back into the crater itself.
This caused Pencroft, who would only look at the matter in the
light of a joke, to exclaim,—

"Ah! the giant is playing at cup and ball; he is a
conjurer."

In fact, the substances thrown up fell back again in to the
abyss, and it did not seem that the lava, though swollen by the
internal pressure, had yet risen to the orifice of the crater. At
any rate, the opening on the northeast, which was partly visible,
poured out no torrent upon the northern slope of the mountain.

Nevertheless, however pressing was the construction of the
vessel, other duties demanded the presence of the colonists on
various portions of the island. Before everything it was necessary
to go to the corral, where the flocks of musmons and goats were
enclosed, and replenish the provision of forage for those animals.
It was accordingly arranged that Ayrton should proceed thither the
next day, the 7th of January; and as he was sufficient for the
task, to which he was accustomed, Pencroft and the rest were
somewhat surprised on hearing the engineer say to Ayrton—

"As you are going to-morrow to the corral I will accompany
you."

"But, Captain Harding," exclaimed the sailor, "our working days
will not be many, and if you go also we shall be two pair of hands
short!"

"We shall return to-morrow," replied Cyrus Harding, "but it is
necessary that I should go to the corral. I must learn how the
eruption is progressing."

"The eruption! always the eruption!" answered Pencroft, with an
air of discontent. "An important thing, truly, this eruption! I
trouble myself very little about it."
