The engineer's thought was at once understood. it might be
possible to dam, as it were, the torrent, and thus compel it to
pour itself into the lake.

The colonists hastened to the dockyard. They returned with
shovels, picks, axes, and by means of banking the earth with the
aid of fallen trees they succeeded in a few hours in raising an
embankment three feet high and some hundreds of paces in length. It
seemed to them, when they had finished, as if they had scarcely
been working more than a few minutes.

It was not a moment too soon. The liquefied substances soon
after reached the bottom of the barrier. The stream of lava swelled
like a river about to overflow its banks, and threatened to
demolish the sole obstacle which could prevent it from overrunning
the whole Far West. But the dam held firm, and after a moment of
terrible suspense the torrent precipitated itself into Grant Lake
from a height of twenty feet.

The colonists, without moving or uttering a word, breathlessly
regarded this strife of the two elements.

What a spectacle was this conflict between water and fire! What
pen could describe the marvelous horror of this scene—what pencil
could depict it? The water hissed as it evaporated by contact with
the boiling lava. The vapor whirled in the air to an immeasurable
height, as if the valves of an immense boiler had been suddenly
opened. But, however considerable might be the volume of water
contained in the lake, it must eventually be absorbed, because it
was not replenished, while the stream of lava, fed from an
inexhaustible source, rolled on without ceasing new waves of
incandescent matter.

The first waves of lava which fell in the lake immediately
solidified and accumulated so as speedily to emerge from it. Upon
their surface fell other waves, which in their turn became stone,
but a step nearer the center of the lake. In this manner was formed
a pier which threatened to gradually fill up the lake, which could
not overflow, the water displaced by the lava being evaporated. The
hissing of the water rent the air with a deafening sound, and the
vapor, blown by the wind, fell in rain upon the sea. The pier
became longer and longer, and the blocks of lava piled themselves
one on another. Where formerly stretched the calm waters of the
lake now appeared an enormous mass of smoking rocks, as if an
upheaving of the soil had formed immense shoals. Imagine the waters
of the lake aroused by a hurricane, then suddenly solidified by an
intense frost, and some conception may be formed of the aspect of
the lake three hours alter the eruption of this irresistible
torrent of lava.

This time water would be vanquished by fire.

Nevertheless it was a fortunate circumstance for the colonists
that the effusion of lava should have been in the direction of Lake
Grant. They had before them some days' respite. The plateau of
Prospect Heights, Granite House, and the dockyard were for the
moment preserved. And these few days it was necessary to employ in
planking and carefully calking the vessel, and launching her. The
colonists would then take refuge on board the vessel, content to
rig her after she should be afloat on the waters. With the danger
of an explosion which threatened to destroy the island there could
be no security on shore. The walls of Granite House, once so sure a
retreat, might at any moment fall in upon them.

During the six following days, from the 25th to the 30th of
January, the colonists accomplished as much of the construction of
their vessel as twenty men could have done. They hardly allowed
themselves a moment's repose, and the glare of the flames which
shot from the crater enabled them to work night and day. The flow
of lava continued, but perhaps less abundantly. This was fortunate,
for Lake Grant was almost entirely choked up, and if more lava
should accumulate it would inevitably spread over the plateau of
Prospect Heights, and thence upon the beach.

But if the island was thus partially protected on this side, it
was not so with the western part.

In fact, the second stream of lava, which had followed the
valley of Falls River, a valley of great extent, the land on both
sides of the creek being flat, met with no obstacle. The burning
liquid had then spread through the forest of the Far West. At this
period of the year, when the trees were dried up by a tropical
heat, the forest caught fire instantaneously, in such a manner that
the conflagration extended itself both by the trunks of the trees
and by their higher branches, whose interlacement favored its
progress. It even appeared that the current of flame spread more
rapidly among the summits of the trees than the current of lava at
their bases.
