The engineer nodded faintly, and then appeased to sleep.

They respected this sleep, and the reporter began immediately to
make arrangements for transporting Harding to a more comfortable
place. Neb, Herbert, and Pencroft left the cave and directed their
steps towards a high mound crowned with a few distorted trees. On
the way the sailor could not help repeating,—

"Island or continent! To think of that, when at one's last gasp!
What a man!"

Arrived at the summit of the mound, Pencroft and his two
companions set to work, with no other tools than their hands, to
despoil of its principal branches a rather sickly tree, a sort of
marine fir; with these branches they made a litter, on which,
covered with grass and leaves, they could carry the engineer.

This occupied them nearly forty minutes, and it was ten o'clock
when they returned to Cyrus Harding whom Spilett had not left.

The engineer was just awaking from the sleep, or rather from the
drowsiness, in which they had found him. The color was returning to
his cheeks, which till now had been as pale as death. He raised
himself a little, looked around him, and appeared to ask where he
was.

"Can you listen to me without fatigue, Cyrus?" asked the
reporter.

"Yes," replied the engineer.

"It's my opinion," said the sailor, "that Captain Harding will
be able to listen to you still better, if he will have some more
grouse jelly,—for we have grouse, captain," added he, presenting
him with a little of this jelly, to which he this time added some
of the flesh.

Cyrus Harding ate a little of the grouse, and the rest was
divided among his companions, who found it but a meager breakfast,
for they were suffering extremely from hunger.

"Well!" said the sailor, "there is plenty of food at the
Chimneys, for you must know, captain, that down there, in the
south, we have a house, with rooms, beds, and fireplace, and in the
pantry, several dozen of birds, which our Herbert calls couroucous.
Your litter is ready, and as soon as you feel strong enough we will
carry you home."
