
First of all, Cyrus Harding was carried into the central
passage. There they managed to arrange for him a couch of sea-weed
which still remained almost dry. The deep sleep which had
overpowered him would no doubt be more beneficial to him than any
nourishment.

Night had closed in, and the temperature, which had modified
when the wind shifted to the northwest, again became extremely
cold. Also, the sea having destroyed the partitions which Pencroft
had put up in certain places in the passages, the Chimneys, on
account of the draughts, had become scarcely habitable. The
engineer's condition would, therefore, have been bad enough, if his
companions had not carefully covered him with their coats and
waistcoats.

Supper, this evening, was of course composed of the inevitable
lithodomes, of which Herbert and Neb picked up a plentiful supply
on the beach. However, to these molluscs, the lad added some edible
sea-weed, which he gathered on high rocks, whose sides were only
washed by the sea at the time of high tides. This sea-weed, which
belongs to the order of Fucacae, of the genus Sargassum, produces,
when dry, a gelatinous matter, rich and nutritious. The reporter
and his companions, after having eaten a quantity of lithodomes,
sucked the sargassum, of which the taste was very tolerable. It is
used in parts of the East very considerably by the natives. "Never
mind!" said the sailor, "the captain will help us soon." Meanwhile
the cold became very severe, and unhappily they had no means of
defending themselves from it.

The sailor, extremely vexed, tried in all sorts of ways to
procure fire. Neb helped him in this work. He found some dry moss,
and by striking together two pebbles he obtained some sparks, but
the moss, not being inflammable enough, did not take fire, for the
sparks were really only incandescent, and not at all of the same
consistency as those which are emitted from flint when struck in
the same manner. The experiment, therefore, did not succeed.

Pencroft, although he had no confidence in the proceeding, then
tried rubbing two pieces of dry wood together, as savages do.
Certainly, the movement which he and Neb exhibited, if it had been
transformed into heat, according to the new theory, would have been
enough to heat the boiler of a steamer! It came to nothing. The
bits of wood became hot, to be sure, but much less so than the
operators themselves.

After working an hour, Pencroft, who was in a complete state of
perspiration, threw down the pieces of wood in disgust.

"I can never be made to believe that savages light their fires
in this way, let them say what they will," he exclaimed. "I could
sooner light my arms by rubbing them against each other!"

The sailor was wrong to despise the proceeding. Savages often
kindle wood by means of rapid rubbing. But every sort of wood does
not answer for the purpose, and besides, there is "the knack,"
following the usual expression, and it is probable that Pencroft
had not "the knack."

Pencroft's ill humor did not last long. Herbert had taken the
bits of wood which he had turned down, and was exerting himself to
rub them. The hardy sailor could not restrain a burst of laughter
on seeing the efforts of the lad to succeed where he had
failed.

"Rub, my boy, rub!" said he.

