"I cannot say exactly," replied the engineer, "but I presume it
is some land in the Pacific. In fact, when we left Richmond, the
wind was blowing from the northeast, and its very violence greatly
proves that it could not have varied. If the direction has been
maintained from the northeast to the southwest, we have traversed
the States of North Carolina, of South Carolina, of Georgia, the
Gulf of Mexico, Mexico, itself, in its narrow part, then a part of
the Pacific Ocean. I cannot estimate the distance traversed by the
balloon at less than six to seven thousand miles, and, even
supposing that the wind had varied half a quarter, it must have
brought us either to the archipelago of Mendava, either on the
Pomotous, or even, if it had a greater strength than I suppose, to
the land of New Zealand. If the last hypothesis is correct, it will
be easy enough to get home again. English or Maoris, we shall
always find some one to whom we can speak. If, on the contrary,
this is the coast of a desert island in some tiny archipelago,
perhaps we shall be able to reconnoiter it from the summit of that
peak which overlooks the country, and then we shall see how best to
establish ourselves here as if we are never to go away."

"Never?" cried the reporter. "You say 'Never,' my dear
Cyrus?"

"Better to put things at the worst at first," replied the
engineer, "and reserve the best for a surprise."

"Well said," remarked Pencroft. "It is to be hoped, too, that
this island, if it be one, is not situated just out of the course
of ships; that would be really unlucky!"

"We shall not know what we have to rely on until we have first
made the ascent of the mountain," replied the engineer.

"But to-morrow, captain," asked Herbert, "shall you be in a
state to bear the fatigue of the ascent?"

"I hope so," replied the engineer, "provided you and Pencroft,
my boy, show yourselves quick and clever hunters."

"Captain," said the sailor, "since you are speaking of game, if
on my return, I was as certain of roasting it as I am of bringing
it back—"

"Bring it back all the same, Pencroft," replied Harding.

It was then agreed that the engineer and the reporter were to
pass the day at the Chimneys, so as to examine the shore and the
upper plateau. Neb, Herbert, and the sailor were to return to the
forest, renew their store of wood, and lay violent hands on every
creature, feathered or hairy, which might come within their
reach.

They set out accordingly about ten o'clock in the morning,
Herbert confident, Neb joyous, Pencroft murmuring aside,—
