
"If, on my return, I find a fire at the house, I shall believe
that the thunder itself came to light it." All three climbed the
bank; and arrived at the angle made by the river, the sailor,
stopping, said to his two companions,—

"Shall we begin by being hunters or wood-men?"

"Hunters," replied Herbert. "There is Top already in quest."

"We will hunt, then," said the sailor, "and afterwards we can
come back and collect our wood."

This agreed to, Herbert, Neb, and Pencroft, after having torn
three sticks from the trunk of a young fir, followed Top, who was
bounding about among the long grass.

This time, the hunters, instead of following the course of the
river, plunged straight into the heart of the forest. There were
still the same trees, belonging, for the most part, to the pine
family. In certain places, less crowded, growing in clumps, these
pines exhibited considerable dimensions, and appeared to indicate,
by their development, that the country was situated in a higher
latitude than the engineer had supposed. Glades, bristling with
stumps worn away by time, were covered with dry wood, which formed
an inexhaustible store of fuel. Then, the glade passed, the
underwood thickened again, and became almost impenetrable.

It was difficult enough to find the way among the groups of
trees, without any beaten track. So the sailor from time to time
broke off branches which might be easily recognized. But, perhaps,
he was wrong not to follow the watercourse, as he and Herbert had
done on their first excursion, for after walking an hour not a
creature had shown itself. Top, running under the branches, only
roused birds which could not be approached. Even the couroucous
were invisible, and it was probable that the sailor would be
obliged to return to the marshy part of the forest, in which he had
so happily performed his grouse fishing.

"Well, Pencroft," said Neb, in a slightly sarcastic tone, "if
this is all the game which you promised to bring back to my master,
it won't need a large fire to roast it!"

"Have patience," replied the sailor, "it isn't the game which
will be wanting on our return."

"Have you not confidence in Captain Harding?"

