Whence, it may be asked, had come that plaything of the tempest?
From what part of the world did it rise? It surely could not have
started during the storm. But the storm had raged five days
already, and the first symptoms were manifested on the 18th. It
cannot be doubted that the balloon came from a great distance, for
it could not have traveled less than two thousand miles in
twenty-four hours.

At any rate the passengers, destitute of all marks for their
guidance, could not have possessed the means of reckoning the route
traversed since their departure. It was a remarkable fact that,
although in the very midst of the furious tempest, they did not
suffer from it. They were thrown about and whirled round and round
without feeling the rotation in the slightest degree, or being
sensible that they were removed from a horizontal position.

Their eyes could not pierce through the thick mist which had
gathered beneath the car. Dark vapor was all around them. Such was
the density of the atmosphere that they could not be certain
whether it was day or night. No reflection of light, no sound from
inhabited land, no roaring of the ocean could have reached them,
through the obscurity, while suspended in those elevated zones.
Their rapid descent alone had informed them of the dangers which
they ran from the waves. However, the balloon, lightened of heavy
articles, such as ammunition, arms, and provisions, had risen into
the higher layers of the atmosphere, to a height of 4,500 feet. The
voyagers, after having discovered that the sea extended beneath
them, and thinking the dangers above less dreadful than those
below, did not hesitate to throw overboard even their most useful
articles, while they endeavored to lose no more of that fluid, the
life of their enterprise, which sustained them above the abyss.

The night passed in the midst of alarms which would have been
death to less energetic souls. Again the day appeared and with it
the tempest began to moderate. From the beginning of that day, the
24th of March, it showed symptoms of abating. At dawn, some of the
lighter clouds had risen into the more lofty regions of the air. In
a few hours the wind had changed from a hurricane to a fresh
breeze, that is to say, the rate of the transit of the atmospheric
layers was diminished by half. It was still what sailors call "a
close-reefed topsail breeze," but the commotion in the elements had
none the less considerably diminished.

Towards eleven o'clock, the lower region of the air was sensibly
clearer. The atmosphere threw off that chilly dampness which is
felt after the passage of a great meteor. The storm did not seem to
have gone farther to the west. It appeared to have exhausted
itself. Could it have passed away in electric sheets, as is
sometimes the case with regard to the typhoons of the Indian
Ocean?

But at the same time, it was also evident that the balloon was
again slowly descending with a regular movement. It appeared as if
it were, little by little, collapsing, and that its case was
lengthening and extending, passing from a spherical to an oval
form. Towards midday the balloon was hovering above the sea at a
height of only 2,000 feet. It contained 50,000 cubic feet of gas,
and, thanks to its capacity, it could maintain itself a long time
in the air, although it should reach a great altitude or might be
thrown into a horizontal position.

Perceiving their danger, the passengers cast away the last
articles which still weighed down the car, the few provisions they
had kept, everything, even to their pocket-knives, and one of them,
having hoisted himself on to the circles which united the cords of
the net, tried to secure more firmly the lower point of the
balloon.

It was, however, evident to the voyagers that the gas was
failing, and that the balloon could no longer be sustained in the
higher regions. They must infallibly perish!

There was not a continent, nor even an island, visible beneath
them. The watery expanse did not present a single speck of land,
not a solid surface upon which their anchor could hold.

It was the open sea, whose waves were still dashing with
tremendous violence! It was the ocean, without any visible limits,
even for those whose gaze, from their commanding position, extended
over a radius of forty miles. The vast liquid plain, lashed without
mercy by the storm, appeared as if covered with herds of furious
chargers, whose white and disheveled crests were streaming in the
wind. No land was in sight, not a solitary ship could be seen. It
was necessary at any cost to arrest their downward course, and to
prevent the balloon from being engulfed in the waves. The voyagers
directed all their energies to this urgent work. But,
notwithstanding their efforts, the balloon still fell, and at the
same time shifted with the greatest rapidity, following the
direction of the wind, that is to say, from the northeast to the
southwest.

Frightful indeed was the situation of these unfortunate men.
They were evidently no longer masters of the machine. All their
attempts were useless. The case of the balloon collapsed more and
more. The gas escaped without any possibility of retaining it.
Their descent was visibly accelerated, and soon after midday the
car hung within 600 feet of the ocean.
