
The animals, motionless among the blocks of basalt, gazed with
an astonished eye, as if they saw human bipeds for the first time.
Then their fears suddenly aroused, they disappeared, bounding over
the rocks.

"Good-bye, till we meet again," cried Pencroft, as he watched
them, in such a comical tone that Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett,
Herbert, and Neb could not help laughing.

The ascent was continued. Here and there were traces of lava.
Sulphur springs sometimes stopped their way, and they had to go
round them. In some places the sulphur had formed crystals among
other substances, such as whitish cinders made of an infinity of
little feldspar crystals.

In approaching the first plateau formed by the truncating of the
lower cone, the difficulties of the ascent were very great. Towards
four o'clock the extreme zone of the trees had been passed. There
only remained here and there a few twisted, stunted pines, which
must have had a hard life in resisting at this altitude the high
winds from the open sea. Happily for the engineer and his
companions the weather was beautiful, the atmosphere tranquil; for
a high breeze at an elevation of three thousand feet would have
hindered their proceedings. The purity of the sky at the zenith was
felt through the transparent air. A perfect calm reigned around
them. They could not see the sun, then hid by the vast screen of
the upper cone, which masked the half-horizon of the west, and
whose enormous shadow stretching to the shore increased as the
radiant luminary sank in its diurnal course. Vapor—mist rather than
clouds—began to appear in the east, and assume all the prismatic
colors under the influence of the solar rays.

Five hundred feet only separated the explorers from the plateau,
which they wished to reach so as to establish there an encampment
for the night, but these five hundred feet were increased to more
than two miles by the zigzags which they had to describe. The soil,
as it were, slid under their feet.

The slope often presented such an angle that they slipped when
the stones worn by the air did not give a sufficient support.
Evening came on by degrees, and it was almost night when Cyrus
Harding and his companions, much fatigued by an ascent of seven
hours, arrived at the plateau of the first cone. It was then
necessary to prepare an encampment, and to restore their strength
by eating first and sleeping afterwards. This second stage of the
mountain rose on a base of rocks, among which it would be easy to
find a retreat. Fuel was not abundant. However, a fire could be
made by means of the moss and dry brushwood, which covered certain
parts of the plateau. While the sailor was preparing his hearth
with stones which he put to this use, Neb and Herbert occupied
themselves with getting a supply of fuel. They soon returned with a
load of brushwood. The steel was struck, the burnt linen caught the
sparks of flint, and, under Neb's breath, a crackling fire showed
itself in a few minutes under the shelter of the rocks. Their
object in lighting a fire was only to enable them to withstand the
cold temperature of the night, as it was not employed in cooking
the bird, which Neb kept for the next day. The remains of the
capybara and some dozens of the stone-pine almonds formed their
supper. It was not half-past six when all was finished.

Cyrus Harding then thought of exploring in the half-light the
large circular layer which supported the upper cone of the
mountain. Before taking any rest, he wished to know if it was
possible to get round the base of the cone in the case of its sides
being too steep and its summit being inaccessible. This question
preoccupied him, for it was possible that from the way the hat
inclined, that is to say, towards the north, the plateau was not
practicable. Also, if the summit of the mountain could not be
reached on one side, and if, on the other, they could not get round
the base of the cone, it would be impossible to survey the western
part of the country, and their object in making the ascent would in
part be altogether unattained.

The engineer, accordingly, regardless of fatigue, leaving
Pencroft and Neb to arrange the beds, and Gideon Spilett to note
the incidents of the day, began to follow the edge of the plateau,
going towards the north. Herbert accompanied him.

The night was beautiful and still, the darkness was not yet
deep. Cyrus Harding and the boy walked near each other, without
speaking. In some places the plateau opened before them, and they
passed without hindrance. In others, obstructed by rocks, there was
only a narrow path, in which two persons could not walk abreast.
After a walk of twenty minutes, Cyrus Harding and Herbert were
obliged to stop. From this point the slope of the two cones became
one. No shoulder here separated the two parts of the mountain. The
slope, being inclined almost seventy degrees, the path became
impracticable.

But if the engineer and the boy were obliged to give up thoughts
of following a circular direction, in return an opportunity was
given for ascending the cone.

