The interior of the crater, whose inclination did not exceed
thirty five to forty degrees, presented no difficulties nor
obstacles to the ascent. Traces of very ancient lava were noticed,
which probably had overflowed the summit of the cone, before this
lateral chasm had opened a new way to it.

As to the volcanic chimney which established a communication
between the subterranean layers and the crater, its depth could not
be calculated with the eye, for it was lost in obscurity. But there
was no doubt as to the complete extinction of the volcano.

Before eight o'clock Harding and his companions were assembled
at the summit of the crater, on a conical mound which swelled the
northern edge.

"The sea, the sea everywhere!" they cried, as if their lips
could not restrain the words which made islanders of them.

The sea, indeed, formed an immense circular sheet of water all
around them! Perhaps, on climbing again to the summit of the cone,
Cyrus Harding had had a hope of discovering some coast, some island
shore, which he had not been able to perceive in the dark the
evening before. But nothing appeared on the farthest verge of the
horizon, that is to say over a radius of more than fifty miles. No
land in sight. Not a sail. Over all this immense space the ocean
alone was visible—the island occupied the center of a circumference
which appeared to be infinite.

The engineer and his companions, mute and motionless, surveyed
for some minutes every point of the ocean, examining it to its most
extreme limits. Even Pencroft, who possessed a marvelous power of
sight, saw nothing; and certainly if there had been land at the
horizon, if it appeared only as an indistinct vapor, the sailor
would undoubtedly have found it out, for nature had placed regular
telescopes under his eyebrows.

From the ocean their gaze returned to the island which they
commanded entirely, and the first question was put by Gideon
Spilett in these terms:

"About what size is this island?"

Truly, it did not appear large in the midst of the immense
ocean.

Cyrus Harding reflected a few minutes; he attentively observed
the perimeter of the island, taking into consideration the height
at which he was placed; then,—

"My friends," said he, "I do not think I am mistaken in giving
to the shore of the island a circumference of more than a hundred
miles."
