"Top has seen something," cried one of the men. Then immediately
a loud voice shouted,—

"Land! land!" The balloon, which the wind still drove towards
the southwest, had since daybreak gone a considerable distance,
which might be reckoned by hundreds of miles, and a tolerably high
land had, in fact, appeared in that direction. But this land was
still thirty miles off. It would not take less than an hour to get
to it, and then there was the chance of falling to leeward.

An hour! Might not the balloon before that be emptied of all the
fluid it yet retained?

Such was the terrible question! The voyagers could distinctly
see that solid spot which they must reach at any cost. They were
ignorant of what it was, whether an island or a continent, for they
did not know to what part of the world the hurricane had driven
them. But they must reach this land, whether inhabited or desolate,
whether hospitable or not.

It was evident that the balloon could no longer support itself!
Several times already had the crests of the enormous billows licked
the bottom of the net, making it still heavier, and the balloon
only half rose, like a bird with a wounded wing. Half an hour later
the land was not more than a mile off, but the balloon, exhausted,
flabby, hanging in great folds, had gas in its upper part alone.
The voyagers, clinging to the net, were still too heavy for it, and
soon, half plunged into the sea, they were beaten by the furious
waves. The balloon-case bulged out again, and the wind, taking it,
drove it along like a vessel. Might it not possibly thus reach the
land?

But, when only two fathoms off, terrible cries resounded from
four pairs of lungs at once. The balloon, which had appeared as if
it would never again rise, suddenly made an unexpected bound, after
having been struck by a tremendous sea. As if it had been at that
instant relieved of a new part of its weight, it mounted to a
height of 1,500 feet, and here it met a current of wind, which
instead of taking it directly to the coast, carried it in a nearly
parallel direction.

At last, two minutes later, it reproached obliquely, and finally
fell on a sandy beach, out of the reach of the waves.

The voyagers, aiding each other, managed to disengage themselves
from the meshes of the net. The balloon, relieved of their weight,
was taken by the wind, and like a wounded bird which revives for an
instant, disappeared into space.

But the car had contained five passengers, with a dog, and the
balloon only left four on the shore.

The missing person had evidently been swept off by the sea,
which had just struck the net, and it was owing to this
circumstance that the lightened balloon rose the last time, and
then soon after reached the land. Scarcely had the four castaways
set foot on firm ground, than they all, thinking of the absent one,
simultaneously exclaimed, "Perhaps he will try to swim to land! Let
us save him! let us save him!"


