
The citizens of the Union were at no loss for the right name of
these rodents. They were maras, a sort of agouti, a little larger
than their congeners of tropical countries, regular American
rabbits, with long ears, jaws armed on each side with five molars,
which distinguish the agouti.

"Hurrah!" cried Pencroft, "the roast has arrived! and now we can
go home."

The walk, interrupted for an instant, was resumed. The limpid
waters of the Red Creek flowed under an arch of casuannas,
banksias, and gigantic gum-trees. Superb lilacs rose to a height of
twenty feet. Other arborescent species, unknown to the young
naturalist, bent over the stream, which could be heard murmuring
beneath the bowers of verdure.

Meanwhile the stream grew much wider, and Cyrus Harding supposed
that they would soon reach its mouth. In fact, on emerging from
beneath a thick clump of beautiful trees, it suddenly appeared
before their eyes.

The explorers had arrived on the western shore of Lake Grant.
The place was well worth looking at. This extent of water, of a
circumference of nearly seven miles and an area of two hundred and
fifty acres, reposed in a border of diversified trees. Towards the
east, through a curtain of verdure, picturesquely raised in some
places, sparkled an horizon of sea. The lake was curved at the
north, which contrasted with the sharp outline of its lower part.
Numerous aquatic birds frequented the shores of this little
Ontario, in which the thousand isles of its American namesake were
represented by a rock which emerged from its surface, some hundred
feet from the southern shore. There lived in harmony several
couples of kingfishers perched on a stone, grave, motionless,
watching for fish, then darting down, they plunged in with a sharp
cry, and reappeared with their prey in their beaks. On the shores
and on the islets, strutted wild ducks, pelicans, water-hens,
red-beaks, philedons, furnished with a tongue like a brush, and one
or two specimens of the splendid menura, the tail of which expands
gracefully like a lyre.

As to the water of the lake, it was sweet, limpid, rather dark,
and from certain bubblings, and the concentric circles which
crossed each other on the surface, it could not be doubted that it
abounded in fish.

"This lake is really beautiful!" said Gideon Spilett. "We could
live on its borders!"

"We will live there!" replied Harding.

The settlers, wishing to return to the Chimneys by the shortest
way, descended towards the angle formed on the south by the
junction of the lake's bank. It was not without difficulty that
they broke a path through the thickets and brushwood which had
never been put aside by the hand of mm, and they thus went towards
the shore, so as to arrive at the north of Prospect Heights. Two
miles were cleared in this direction, and then, after they had
passed the last curtain of trees, appeared the plateau, carpeted
with thick turf, and beyond that the infinite sea.

To return to the Chimneys, it was enough to cross the plateau
obliquely for the space of a mile, and then to descend to the elbow
formed by the first detour of the Mercy. But the engineer desired
to know how and where the overplus of the water from the lake
escaped, and the exploration was prolonged under the trees for a
mile and a half towards the north. It was most probable that an
overfall existed somewhere, and doubtless through a cleft in the
granite. This lake was only, in short, an immense center basin,
which was filled by degrees by the creek, and its waters must
necessarily pass to the sea by some fall. If it was so, the
engineer thought that it might perhaps be possible to utilize this
fall and borrow its power, actually lost without profit to any one.
They continued then to follow the shores of Lake Grant by climbing
the plateau; but, after having gone a mile in this direction, Cyrus
Harding had not been able to discover the overfall, which, however,
must exist somewhere.

