"No," replied Harding, "it is wormwood; Chinese wormwood to the
learned, but to us it will be tinder."

When the wormwood was properly dried it provided them with a
very inflammable substance, especially afterwards when the engineer
had impregnated it with nitrate of potash, of which the island
possessed several beds, and which is in truth saltpeter.

The colonists had a good supper that evening. Neb prepared some
agouti soup, a smoked capybara ham, to which was added the boiled
tubercules of the "caladium macrorhizum," an herbaceous plant of
the arum family. They had an excellent taste, and were very
nutritious, being something similar to the substance which is sold
in England under the name of "Portland sago"; they were also a good
substitute for bread, which the settlers in Lincoln Island did not
yet possess.

When supper was finished, before sleeping, Harding and his
companions went to take the air on the beach. it was eight o'clock
in the evening; the night was magnificent. The moon, which had been
full five days before, had not yet risen, but the horizon was
already silvered by those soft, pale shades which might be called
the dawn of the moon. At the southern zenith glittered the
circumpolar constellations, and above all the Southern Cross, which
some days before the engineer had greeted on the summit of Mount
Franklin.

Cyrus Harding gazed for some time at this splendid
constellation, which has at its summit and at its base two stars of
the first magnitude, at its left arm a star of the second, and at
its right arm a star of the third magnitude.

Then, after some minutes thought—

"Herbert," he asked of the lad, "is not this the 15th of
April?"

"Yes, captain," replied Herbert.

"Well, if I am not mistaken, to-morrow will be one of the four
days in the year in which the real time is identical with average
time; that is to say, my boy, that to-morrow, to within some
seconds, the sun will pass the meridian just at midday by the
clocks. If the weather is fine I think that I shall obtain the
longitude of the island with an approximation of some degrees."

"Without instruments, without sextant?" asked Gideon
Spilett.

"Yes," replied the engineer. "Also, since the night is clear, I
will try, this very evening, to obtain our latitude by calculating
the height of the Southern Cross, that is, from the southern pole
above the horizon. You understand, my friends, that before
undertaking the work of installation in earnest it is not enough to
have found out that this land is an island; we must, as nearly as
possible, know at what distance it is situated, either from the
American continent or Australia, or from the principal
archipelagoes of the Pacific."
