
"Do you know," he used often to say, looking at Alyosha, "that
you are like her, 'the crazy woman'"- that was what he used to call
his dead wife, Alyosha's mother. Grigory it was who pointed out the
"crazy woman's" grave to Alyosha. He took him to our town cemetery
and showed him in a remote corner a cast-iron tombstone, cheap but
decently kept, on which were inscribed the name and age of the
deceased and the date of her death, and below a four-lined verse,
such as are commonly used on old-fashioned middle-class tombs. To
Alyosha's amazement this tomb turned out to be Grigory's doing. He
had put it up on the poor "crazy woman's" grave at his own expense,
after Fyodor Pavlovitch, whom he had often pestered about the
grave, had gone to Odessa, abandoning the grave and all his
memories. Alyosha showed no particular emotion at the sight of his
mother's grave. He only listened to Grigory's minute and solemn
account of the erection of the tomb; he stood with bowed head and
walked away without uttering a word. It was perhaps a year before
he visited the cemetery again. But this little episode was not
without an influence upon Fyodor Pavlovitch- and a very original
one. He suddenly took a thousand roubles to our monastery to pay
for requiems for the soul of his wife; but not for the second,
Alyosha's mother, the "crazy woman," but for the first, Adelaida
Ivanovna, who used to thrash him. In the evening of the same day he
got drunk and abused the monks to Alyosha. He himself was far from
being religious; he had probably never put a penny candle before
the image of a saint. Strange impulses of sudden feeling and sudden
thought are common in such types.

I have mentioned already that he looked bloated. His countenance
at this time bore traces of something that testified unmistakably
to the life he had led. Besides the long fleshy bags under his
little, always insolent, suspicious, and ironical eyes; besides the
multitude of deep wrinkles in his little fat face, the Adam's apple
hung below his sharp chin like a great, fleshy goitre, which gave
him a peculiar, repulsive, sensual appearance; add to that a long
rapacious mouth with full lips, between which could be seen little
stumps of black decayed teeth. He slobbered every time he began to
speak. He was fond indeed of making fun of his own face, though, I
believe, he was well satisfied with it. He used particularly to
point to his nose, which was not very large, but very delicate and
conspicuously aquiline. "A regular Roman nose," he used to say,
"with my goitre I've quite the countenance of an ancient Roman
patrician of the decadent period." He seemed proud of it.

Not long after visiting his mother's grave Alyosha suddenly
announced that he wanted to enter the monastery, and that the monks
were willing to receive him as a novice. He explained that this was
his strong desire, and that he was solemnly asking his consent as
his father. The old man knew that the elder Zossima, who was living
in the monastery hermitage, had made a special impression upon his
"gentle boy."

"That is the most honest monk among them, of course," he
observed, after listening in thoughtful silence to Alyosha, and
seeming scarcely surprised at his request. "H'm!… So that's where
you want to be, my gentle boy?"

He was half drunk, and suddenly he grinned his slow half-drunken
grin, which was not without a certain cunning and tipsy slyness.
"H'm!… I had a presentiment that you would end in something like
this. Would you believe it? You were making straight for it. Well,
to be sure you have your own two thousand. That's a dowry for you.
And I'll never desert you, my angel. And I'll pay what's wanted for
you there, if they ask for it. But, of course, if they don't ask,
why should we worry them? What do you say? You know, you spend
money like a canary, two grains a week. H'm!… Do you know that near
one monastery there's a place outside the town where every baby
knows there are none but 'the monks' wives' living, as they are
called. Thirty women, I believe. I have been there myself. You
know, it's interesting in its way, of course, as a variety. The
worst of it is it's awfully Russian. There are no French women
there. Of course, they could get them fast enough, they have plenty
of money. If they get to hear of it they'll come along. Well,
there's nothing of that sort here, no 'monks' wives,' and two
hundred monks. They're honest. They keep the fasts. I admit it… .
H'm… . So you want to be a monk? And do you know I'm sorry to lose
you, Alyosha; would you believe it, I've really grown fond of you?
Well, it's a good opportunity. You'll pray for us sinners; we have
sinned too much here. I've always been thinking who would pray for
me, and whether there's anyone in the world to do it. My dear boy,
I'm awfully stupid about that. You wouldn't believe it. Awfully.
You see, however stupid I am about it, I keep thinking, I keep
thinking- from time to time, of course, not all the while. It's
impossible, I think, for the devils to forget to drag me down to
hell with their hooks when I die. Then I wonder- hooks? Where would
they get them? What of? Iron hooks? Where do they forge them? Have
they a foundry there of some sort? The monks in the monastery
probably believe that there's a ceiling in hell, for instance. Now
I'm ready to believe in hell, but without a ceiling. It makes it
more refined, more enlightened, more Lutheran that is. And, after
all, what does it matter whether it has a ceiling or hasn't? But,
do you know, there's a damnable question involved in it? If there's
no ceiling there can be no hooks, and if there are no hooks it all
breaks down, which is unlikely again, for then there would be none
to drag me down to hell, and if they don't drag me down what
justice is there in the world? Il faudrait les inventer,
[1]
those hooks, on purpose for me alone,
for, if you only knew, Alyosha, what a black-guard I am." "But
there are no hooks there," said Alyosha, looking gently and
seriously at his father. "Yes, yes, only the shadows of hooks. I
know, I know. That's how a Frenchman described hell: 'J'ai vu
l'ombre d'un cocher qui avec l'ombre d'une brosse frottait l'ombre
d'une carrosse.'
[2]
How do you know there are no hooks,
darling? When you've lived with the monks you'll sing a different
tune. But go and get at the truth there, and then come and tell me.
Anyway it's easier going to the other world if one knows what there
is there. Besides, it will be more seemly for you with the monks
than here with me, with a drunken old man and young harlots… though
you're like an angel, nothing touches you. And I dare say nothing
will touch you there. That's why I let you go, because I hope for
that. You've got all your wits about you. You will burn and you
will burn out; you will be healed and come back again. And I will
wait for you. I feel that you're the only creature in the world who
has not condemned me. My dear boy, I feel it, you know. I can't
help feeling it." And he even began blubbering. He was sentimental.
He was wicked and sentimental.




