
"I do, blessed Father."

"You think it's an elm, but for me it has another shape."

"What sort of shape?" inquired the monk, after a pause of vain
expectation.

"It happens at night. You see those two branches? In the night
it is Christ holding out His arms to me and seeking me with those
arms, I see it clearly and tremble. It's terrible, terrible!"

"What is there terrible if it's Christ Himself?"

"Why, He'll snatch me up and carry me away."

"Alive?"

"In the spirit and glory of Elijah, haven't you heard? He will
take me in His arms and bear me away."

Though the monk returned to the cell he was sharing with one of
the brothers, in considerable perplexity of mind, he still
cherished at heart a greater reverence for Father Ferapont than for
Father Zossima. He was strongly in favour of fasting, and it was
not strange that one who kept so rigid a fast as Father Ferapont
should "see marvels." His words seemed certainly queer, but God
only could tell what was hidden in those words, and were not worse
words and acts commonly seen in those who have sacrificed their
intellects for the glory of God? The pinching of the devil's tail
he was ready and eager to believe, and not only in the figurative
sense. Besides he had, before visiting the monastery, a strong
prejudice against the institution of "elders," which he only knew
of by hearsay and believed to be a pernicious innovation. Before he
had been long at the monastery, he had detected the secret
murmurings of some shallow brothers who disliked the institution.
He was, besides, a meddlesome, inquisitive man, who poked his nose
into everything. This was why the news of the fresh "miracle"
performed by Father Zossima reduced him to extreme perplexity.
Alyosha remembered afterwards how their inquisitive guest from
Obdorsk had been continually flitting to and fro from one group to
another, listening and asking questions among the monks that were
crowding within and without the elder's cell. But he did not pay
much attention to him at the time, and only recollected it
afterwards.

He had no thought to spare for it indeed, for when Father
Zossima, feeling tired again, had gone back to bed, he thought of
Alyosha as he was closing his eyes, and sent for him. Alyosha ran
at once. There was no one else in the cell but Father Paissy,
Father Iosif, and the novice Porfiry. The elder, opening his weary
eyes and looking intently at Alyosha, asked him suddenly:

