
"He even throws stones with his left hand," observed a
third.

At that instant a stone flew into the group, but only just
grazed the left-handed boy, though it was well and vigorously
thrown by the boy standing on the other side of the ditch.

"Give it him, hit him back, Smurov," they all shouted. But
Smurov, the left-handed boy, needed no telling, and at once
revenged himself; he threw a stone, but it missed the boy and hit
the ground. The boy on the other side of the ditch, the pocket of
whose coat was visibly bulging with stones, flung another stone at
the group; this time it flew straight at Alyosha and hit him
painfully on the shoulder.

"He aimed it at you, he meant it for you. You are Karamazov,
Karamazov!" the boys shouted laughing, "Come, all throw at him at
once!" and six stones flew at the boy. One struck the boy on the
head and he fell down, but at once leapt up and began ferociously
returning their fire. Both sides threw stones incessantly. Many of
the group had their pockets full too.

"What are you about! Aren't you ashamed? Six against one! Why,
you'll kill him," cried Alyosha.

He ran forward and met the flying stones to screen the solitary
boy. Three or four ceased throwing for a minute.

"He began first!" cried a boy in a red shirt in an angry
childish voice. "He is a beast, he stabbed Krassotkin in class the
other day with a penknife. It bled. Krassotkin wouldn't tell tales,
but he must be thrashed."

"But what for? I suppose you tease him."

"There, he sent a stone in your back again, he knows you," cried
the children. "It's you he is throwing at now, not us. Come, all of
you, at him again, don't miss, Smurov!" and again a fire of stones,
and a very vicious one, began. The boy on the other side of the
ditch was hit in the chest; he screamed, began to cry and ran away
uphill towards Mihailovsky Street. They all shouted: "Aha, he is
funking, he is running away. Wisp of tow!"

"You don't know what a beast he is, Karamazov, killing is too
good for him," said the boy in the jacket, with flashing eyes. He
seemed to be the eldest.

