
"I know, I know all. I've heard exactly what happened yesterday-
and the atrocious behaviour of that- creature. C'est tragique, and
if I'd been in her place I don't know what I should have done. And
your brother Dmitri Fyodorovitch, what do you think of him?- my
goodness! Alexey Fyodorovitch, I am forgetting, only fancy; your
brother is in there with her, not that dreadful brother who was so
shocking yesterday, but the other, Ivan Fyodorovitch, he is sitting
with her talking; they are having a serious conversation. If you
could only imagine what's passing between them now- it's awful, I
tell you it's lacerating, it's like some incredible tale of horror.
They are ruining their lives for no reason anyone can see. They
both recognise it and revel in it. I've been watching for you! I've
been thirsting for you! It's too much for me. that's the worst of
it. I'll tell you all about it presently, but now I must speak of
something else, the most important thing- I had quite forgotten
what's most important. Tell me, why has Lise been in hysterics? As
soon as she heard you were here, she began to be hysterical!"

"Maman, it's you who are hysterical now, not I," Lise's voice
carolled through a tiny crack of the door at the side. Her voice
sounded as though she wanted to laugh, but was doing her utmost to
control it. Alyosha at once noticed the crack, and no doubt Lise
was peeping through it, but that he could not see.

"And no wonder, Lise, no wonder… your caprices will make me
hysterical too. But she is so ill, Alexey Fyodorovitch, she has
been so ill all night, feverish and moaning! I could hardly wait
for the morning and for Herzenstube to come. He says that he can
make nothing of it, that we must wait. Herzenstube always comes and
says that he can make nothing of it. As soon as you approached the
house, she screamed, fell into hysterics, and insisted on being
wheeled back into this room here."

"Mamma, I didn't know he had come. It wasn't on his account I
wanted to be wheeled into this room."

"That's not true, Lise, Yulia ran to tell you that Alexey
Fyodorovitch was coming. She was on the lookout for you."

"My darling mamma, it's not at all clever of you. But if you
want to make up for it and say something very clever, dear mamma,
you'd better tell our honoured visitor, Alexey Fyodorovitch, that
he has shown his want of wit by venturing to us after what happened
yesterday and although everyone is laughing at him."

"Lise, you go too far. I declare I shall have to be severe. Who
laughs at him? I am so glad he has come, I need him, I can't do
without him. Oh, Alexey Fyodorovitch, I am exceedingly
unhappy!"

"But what's the matter with you, mamma, darling?"

"Ah, your caprices, Lise, your fidgetiness, your illness, that
awful night of fever, that awful everlasting Herzenstube,
everlasting, everlasting, that's the worst of it! Everything, in
fact, everything… . Even that miracle, too! Oh, how it has upset
me, how it has shattered me, that miracle, dear Alexey
Fyodorovitch! And that tragedy in the drawing-room, it's more than
I can bear, I warn you. I can't bear it. A comedy, perhaps, not a
tragedy. Tell me, will Father Zossima live till to-morrow, will he?
Oh, my God! What is happening to me? Every minute I close my eyes
and see that it's all nonsense, all nonsense."

"I should be very grateful," Alyosha interrupted suddenly, "if
you could give me a clean rag to bind up my finger with. I have
hurt it, and it's very painful."

