
"That's true, that's true," cried Madame Hohlakov.

"Wait, dear. I haven't told you the chief, the final decision I
came to during the night. I feel that perhaps my decision is a
terrible one- for me, but I foresee that nothing will induce me to
change it- nothing. It will be so all my life. My dear, kind,
ever-faithful and generous adviser, the one friend I have in the
world, Ivan Fyodorovitch, with his deep insight into the heart,
approves and commends my decision. He knows it."

"Yes, I approve of it," Ivan assented, in a subdued but firm
voice.

"But I should like Alyosha, too (Ah! Alexey Fyodorovitch,
forgive my calling you simply Alyosha), I should like Alexey
Fyodorovitch, too, to tell me before my two friends whether I am
right. I feel instinctively that you, Alyosha, my dear brother (for
are a dear brother to me)," she said again ecstatically, taking his
cold hand in her hot one, "I foresee that your decision, your
approval, will bring me peace, in spite of all my sufferings, for,
after your words, I shall be calm and submit- I feel that."

"I don't know what you are asking me," said Alyosha, flushing.
"I only know that I love you and at this moment wish for your
happiness more than my own!… But I know nothing about such
affairs," something impelled him to add hurriedly.

"In such affairs, Alexey Fyodorovitch, in such affairs, the
chief thing is honour and duty and something higher- I don't know
what but higher perhaps even than duty. I am conscious of this
irresistible feeling in my heart, and it compels me irresistibly.
But it may all be put in two words. I've already decided, even if
he marries that- creature," she began solemnly, "whom I never,
never can forgive, even then I will not abandon him. Henceforward I
will never, never abandon him!" she cried, breaking into a sort of
pale, hysterical ecstasy. "Not that I would run after him
continually, get in his way and worry him. Oh, no! I will go away
to another town- where you like- but I will watch over him all my
life- I will watch over him all my life unceasingly. When he
becomes unhappy with that woman, and that is bound to happen quite
soon, let him come to me and he will find a friend, a sister… Only
a sister, of course, and so for ever; but he will learn at least
that that sister is really his sister, who loves him and has
sacrificed all her life to him. I will gain my point. I will insist
on his knowing me confiding entirely in me, without reserve," she
cried, in a sort of frenzy. "I will be a god to whom he can pray-
and that, at least, he owes me for his treachery and for what I
suffered yesterday through him. And let him see that all my life I
will be true to him and the promise I gave him, in spite of his
being untrue and betraying me. I will- I will become nothing but a
means for his happiness, or- how shall I say?- an instrument, a
machine for his happiness, and that for my whole life, my whole
life, and that he may see that all his life! That's my decision.
Ivan Fyodorovitch fully approves me."

She was breathless. She had perhaps intended to express her idea
with more dignity, art and naturalness, but her speech was too
hurried and crude. It was full of youthful impulsiveness, it
betrayed that she was still smarting from yesterday's insult, and
that her pride craved satisfaction. She felt this herself. Her face
suddenly darkened, an unpleasant look came into her eyes. Alyosha
at once saw it and felt a pang of sympathy. His brother Ivan made
it worse by adding:

"I've only expressed my own view," he said. "From anyone else,
this would have been affected and over-strained, but from you- no.
Any other woman would have been wrong, but you are right. I don't
know how to explain it, but I see that you are absolutely genuine
and, therefore, you are right."

"But that's only for the moment. And what does this moment stand
for? Nothing but yesterday's insult." Madame Hohlakov obviously had
not intended to interfere, but she could not refrain from this very
just comment.

"Quite so, quite so," cried Ivan, with peculiar eagerness,
obviously annoyed at being interrupted, "in anyone else this moment
would be only due to yesterday's impression and would be only a
moment. But with Katerina Ivanovna's character, that moment will
last all her life. What for anyone else would be only a promise is
for her an everlasting burdensome, grim perhaps, but unflagging
duty. And she will be sustained by the feeling of this duty being
fulfilled. Your life, Katerina Ivanovna, will henceforth be spent
in painful brooding over your own feelings, your own heroism, and
your own suffering; but in the end that suffering will be softened
and will pass into sweet contemplation of the fulfilment of a bold
and proud design. Yes, proud it certainly is, and desperate in any
case, but a triumph for you. And the consciousness of it will at
last be a source of complete satisfaction and will make you
resigned to everything else."

