
"And do you suppose I'd thrash him? That I'd take my Ilusha and
thrash him before you for your satisfaction? Would you like it done
at once, sir?" said the captain, suddenly turning to Alyosha, as
though he were going to attack him. "I am sorry about your finger,
sir; but instead of thrashing Ilusha, would you like me to chop off
my four fingers with this knife here before your eyes to satisfy
your just wrath? I should think four fingers would be enough to
satisfy your thirst for vengeance. You won't ask for the fifth one
too?" He stopped short with a catch in his throat. Every feature in
his face was twitching and working; he looked extremely defiant. He
was in a sort of frenzy.

"I think I understand it all now," said Alyosha gently and
sorrowfully, still keeping his seat. "So your boy is a good boy, he
loves his father, and he attacked me as the brother of your
assailant… . Now I understand it," he repeated thoughtfully. "But
my brother Dmitri Fyodorovitch regrets his action, I know that, and
if only it is possible for him to come to you, or better still, to
meet you in that same place, he will ask your forgiveness before
everyone- if you wish it."

"After pulling out my beard, you mean, he will ask my
forgiveness? And he thinks that will be a satisfactory finish,
doesn't he?"

"Oh, no! On the contrary, he will do anything you like and in
any way you like."

"So if I were to ask his highness to go down on his knees before
me in that very tavern- 'The Metropolis' it's called- or in the
marketplace, he would do it?"

"Yes, he would even go down on his knees."

"You've pierced me to the heart, sir. Touched me to tears and
pierced me to the heart! I am only too sensible of your brother's
generosity. Allow me to introduce my family, my two daughters and
my son- my litter. If I die, who will care for them, and while I
live who but they will care for a wretch like me? That's a great
thing the Lord has ordained for every man of my sort, sir. For
there must be someone able to love even a man like me."

"Ah, that's perfectly true!" exclaimed Alyosha.

"Oh, do leave off playing the fool! Some idiot comes in, and you
put us to shame!" cried the girl by the window, suddenly turning to
her father with a disdainful and contemptuous air.

"Wait a little, Varvara!" cried her father, speaking
peremptorily but looking at them quite approvingly. "That's her
character," he said, addressing Alyosha again.

