"Very well, Lise, I'll look; but wouldn't it be better not to
look? Why suspect your mother of such meanness?"

"What meanness? As for her spying on her daughter, it's her
right, it's not meanness!" cried Lise, firing up. "You may be sure,
Alexey Fyodorovitch, that when I am a mother, if I have a daughter
like myself I shall certainly spy on her!"

"Really, Lise? That's not right."

"Oh, my goodness! What has meanness to do with it? If she were
listening to some ordinary worldly conversation, it would be
meanness, but when her own daughter is shut up with a young man…
Listen, Alyosha, do you know I shall spy upon you as soon as we are
married, and let me tell you I shall open all your letters and read
them, so you may as well be prepared."

"Yes, of course, if so- " muttered Alyosha, "only it's not
right."

"Ah, how contemptuous! Alyosha, dear, we won't quarrel the very
first day. I'd better tell you the whole truth. Of course, it's
very wrong to spy on people, and, of course, I am not right and you
are, only I shall spy on you all the same."

"Do, then; you won't find out anything," laughed Alyosha.

"And Alyosha, will you give in to me? We must decide that
too."

"I shall be delighted to, Lise, and certain to, only not in the
most important things. Even if you don't agree with me, I shall do
my duty in the most important things."

"That's right; but let me tell you I am ready to give in to you
not only in the most important matters, but in everything. And I am
ready to vow to do so now- in everything, and for all my life!"
cried Lise fervently, "and I'll do it gladly, gladly! What's more,
I'll swear never to spy on you, never once, never to read one of
your letters. For you are right and I am not. And though I shall be
awfully tempted to spy, I know that I won't do it since you
consider it dishonourable. You are my conscience now… . Listen,
Alexey Fyodorovitch, why have you been so sad lately- both
yesterday and to-day? I know you have a lot of anxiety and trouble,
but I see you have some special grief besides, some secret one,
perhaps?"

"Yes, Lise, I have a secret one, too," answered Alyosha
mournfully. "I see you love me, since you guessed that."
