


Chapter

1
Father Zossima and His Visitors


WHEN with an anxious and aching heart Alyosha went into his
elder's cell, he stood still almost astonished. Instead of a sick
man at his last gasp, perhaps unconscious, as he had feared to find
him, he saw him sitting up in his chair and, though weak and
exhausted, his face was bright and cheerful, he was surrounded by
visitors and engaged in a quiet and joyful conversation. But he had
only got up from his bed a quarter of an hour before Alyosha's
arrival; his visitors had gathered together in his cell earlier,
waiting for him to wake, having received a most confident assurance
from Father Paissy that "the teacher would get up, and as he had
himself promised in the morning, converse once more with those dear
to his heart." This promise and indeed every word of the dying
elder Father Paissy put implicit trust in. If he had seen him
unconscious, if he had seen him breathe his last, and yet had his
promise that he would rise up and say good-bye to him, he would not
have believed perhaps even in death, but would still have expected
the dead man to recover and fulfil his promise. In the morning as
he lay down to sleep, Father Zossima had told him positively: "I
shall not die without the delight of another conversation with you,
beloved of my heart. I shall look once more on your dear face and
pour out my heart to you once again." The monks, who had gathered
for this probably last conversation with Father Zossima, had all
been his devoted friends for many years. There were four of them:
Father Iosif and Father Paissy, Father Mihail the warden of the
hermitage, a man not very old and far from being learned. He was of
humble origin, of strong will and steadfast faith, of austere
appearance, but of deep tenderness, though he obviously concealed
it as though he were almost ashamed of it. The fourth, Father
Anfim, was a very old and humble little monk of the poorest peasant
class. He was almost illiterate, and very quiet, scarcely speaking
to anyone. He was the humblest of the humble, and looked as though
he had been frightened by something great and awful beyond the
scope of his intelligence. Father Zossima had a great affection for
this timorous man, and always treated him with marked respect,
though perhaps there was no one he had known to whom he had said
less, in spite of the fact that he had spent years wandering about
holy Russia with him. That was very long ago, forty years before,
when Father Zossima first began his life as a monk in a poor and
little monastery at Kostroma, and when, shortly after, he had
accompanied Father Anfim on his pilgrimage to collect alms for
their poor monastery.

The whole party were in the bedroom which, as we mentioned
before, was very small, so that there was scarcely room for the
four of them (in addition to Porfiry, the novice, who stood) to sit
round Father Zossima on chairs brought from the sitting room. It
was already beginning to get dark, the room was lighted up by the
lamps and the candles before the ikons.

Seeing Alyosha standing embarrassed in the doorway, Father
Zossima smiled at him joyfully and held out his hand.

"Welcome, my quiet one, welcome, my dear, here you are too. I
knew you would come."

Alyosha went up to him, bowed down before him to the ground and
wept. Something surged up from his heart, his soul was quivering,
he wanted to sob.

"Come, don't weep over me yet," Father Zossima smiled, laying
his right hand on his head. "You see I am sitting up talking; maybe
I shall live another twenty years yet, as that dear good woman from
Vishegorye, with her little Lizaveta in her arms, wished me
yesterday. God bless the mother and the little girl Lizaveta," he
crossed himself. "Porfiry, did you take her offering where I told
you?"

He meant the sixty copecks brought him the day before by the
good-humoured woman to be given "to someone poorer than me." Such
offerings, always of money gained by personal toil, are made by way
of penance voluntarily undertaken. The elder had sent Porfiry the
evening before to a widow, whose house had been burnt down lately,
and who after the fire had gone with her children begging alms.
Porfiry hastened to reply that he had given the money, as he had
been instructed, "from an unknown benefactress."
