


Chapter

2
(c) Recollections of Father Zossima's Youth before he became a
Monk. The Duel


I SPENT a long time, almost eight years, in the military cadet
school at Petersburg, and in the novelty of my surroundings there,
many of my childish impressions grew dimmer, though I forgot
nothing. I picked up so many new habits and opinions that I was
transformed into a cruel, absurd, almost savage creature. A surface
polish of courtesy and society manners I did acquire together with
the French language.

But we all, myself included, looked upon the soldiers in our
service as cattle. I was perhaps worse than the rest in that
respect, for I was so much more impressionable than my companions.
By the time we left the school as officers, we were ready to lay
down our lives for the honour of the regiment, but no one of us had
any knowledge of the real meaning of honour, and if anyone had
known it, he would have been the first to ridicule it. Drunkenness,
debauchery and devilry were what we almost prided ourselves on. I
don't say that we were bad by nature, all these young men were good
fellows, but they behaved badly, and I worst of all. What made it
worse for me was that I had come into my own money, and so I flung
myself into a life of pleasure, and plunged headlong into all the
recklessness of youth.

I was fond of reading, yet strange to say, the Bible was the one
book I never opened at that time, though I always carried it about
with me, and I was never separated from it; in very truth I was
keeping that book "for the day and the hour, for the month and the
year," though I knew it not.

After four years of this life, I chanced to be in the town of K.
where our regiment was stationed at the time. We found the people
of the town hospitable, rich, and fond of entertainments. I met
with a cordial reception everywhere, as I was of a lively
temperament and was known to be well off, which always goes a long
way in the world. And then a circumstance happened which was the
beginning of it all.

I formed an attachment to a beautiful and intelligent young girl
of noble and lofty character, the daughter of people much
respected. They were well-to-do people of influence and position.
They always gave me a cordial and friendly reception. I fancied
that the young lady looked on me with favour and my heart was
aflame at such an idea. Later on I saw and fully realised that I
perhaps was not so passionately in love with her at all, but only
recognised the elevation of her mind and character, which I could
not indeed have helped doing. I was prevented, however, from making
her an offer at the time by my selfishness; I was loath to part
with the allurements of my free and licentious bachelor life in the
heyday of my youth, and with my pockets full of money. I did drop
some hint as to my feelings however, though I put off taking any
decisive step for a time. Then, all of a sudden, we were ordered
off for two months to another district.

On my return two months later, I found the young lady already
married to a rich neighbouring landowner, a very amiable man, still
young though older than I was, connected with the best Petersburg
society, which I was not, and of excellent education, which I also
was not. I was so overwhelmed at this unexpected circumstance that
my mind was positively clouded. The worst of it all was that, as I
learned then, the young landowner had been a long while betrothed
to her, and I had met him indeed many times in her house, but
blinded by my conceit I had noticed nothing. And this particularly
mortified me; almost everybody had known all about it, while I knew
nothing. I was filled with sudden irrepressible fury. With flushed
face I began recalling how often I had been on the point of
declaring my love to her, and as she had not attempted to stop me
or to warn me, she must, I concluded, have been laughing at me all
the time. Later on, of course, I reflected and remembered that she
had been very far from laughing at me; on the contrary, she used to
turn off any love-making on my part with a jest and begin talking
of other subjects; but at that moment I was incapable of reflecting
and was all eagerness for revenge. I am surprised to remember that
my wrath and revengeful feelings were extremely repugnant to my own
nature, for being of an easy temper, I found it difficult to be
angry with anyone for long, and so I had to work myself up
artificially and became at last revolting and absurd.

I waited for an opportunity and succeeded in insulting my
"rival" in the presence of a large company. I insulted him on a
perfectly extraneous pretext, jeering at his opinion upon an
important public event- it was in the year 1826- my jeer was, so
people said, clever and effective. Then I forced him to ask for an
explanation, and behaved so rudely that he accepted my challenge in
spite of the vast inequality between us, as I was younger, a person
of no consequence, and of inferior rank. I learned afterwards for a
fact that it was from a jealous feeling on his side also that my
challenge was accepted; he had been rather jealous of me on his
wife's account before their marriage; he fancied now that if he
submitted to be insulted by me and refused to accept my challenge,
and if she heard of it, she might begin to despise him and waver in
her love for him. I soon found a second in a comrade, an ensign of
our regiment. In those days though duels were severely punished,
yet duelling was a kind of fashion among the officers- so strong
and deeply rooted will a brutal prejudice sometimes be.
