"Let me tell you," she said, "that I am the first not to laugh
at you, but on the contrary I thank you with tears and express my
respect for you for your action then."

Her husband, too, came up and then they all approached me and
almost kissed me. My heart was filled with joy, but my attention
was especially caught by a middle-aged man who came up to me with
the others. I knew him by name already, but had never made his
acquaintance nor exchanged a word with him till that evening.

(d) The Mysterious Visitor.

He had long been an official in the town; he was in a prominent
position, respected by all, rich and had a reputation for
benevolence. He subscribed considerable sums to the almshouse and
the orphan asylum; he was very charitable, too, in secret, a fact
which only became known after his death. He was a man of about
fifty, almost stern in appearance and not much given to
conversation. He had been married about ten years and his wife, who
was still young, had borne him three children. Well, I was sitting
alone in my room the following evening, when my door suddenly
opened and this gentleman walked in.

I must mention, by the way, that I was no longer living in my
former quarters. As soon as I resigned my commission, I took rooms
with an old lady, the widow of a government clerk. My landlady's
servant waited upon me, for I had moved into her rooms simply
because on my return from the duel I had sent Afanasy back to the
regiment, as I felt ashamed to look him in the face after my last
interview with him. So prone is the man of the world to be ashamed
of any righteous action.

"I have," said my visitor, "with great interest listened to you
speaking in different houses the last few days and I wanted at last
to make your personal acquaintance, so as to talk to you more
intimately. Can you, dear sir, grant me this favour?"

"I can, with the greatest pleasure, and I shall look upon it as
an honour." I said this, though I felt almost dismayed, so greatly
was I impressed from the first moment by the appearance of this
man. For though other people had listened to me with interest and
attention, no one had come to me before with such a serious, stern,
and concentrated expression. And now he had come to see me in my
own rooms. He sat down.

"You are, I see, a man of great strength of character" he said;
"as you have dared to serve the truth, even when by doing so you
risked incurring the contempt of all."

"Your praise is, perhaps, excessive," I replied.

"No, it's not excessive," he answered; "believe me, such a
course of action is far more difficult than you think. It is that
which has impressed me, and it is only on that account that I have
come to you," he continued. "Tell me, please, that is if you are
not annoyed by my perhaps unseemly curiosity, what were your exact
sensations, if you can recall them, at the moment when you made up
your mind to ask forgiveness at the duel. Do not think my question
frivolous; on the contrary, I have in asking the question a secret
motive of my own, which I will perhaps explain to you later on, if
it is God's will that we should become more intimately
acquainted."

All the while he was speaking, I was looking at him straight
into the face and I felt all at once a complete trust in him and
great curiosity on my side also, for I felt that there was some
strange secret in his soul.
