
For a long while I could not believe him, and I did not believe
him at that time, but only after he had been to see me three days
running and told me all about it. I thought he was mad, but ended
by being convinced, to my great grief and amazement. His crime was
a great and terrible one.

Fourteen years before, he had murdered the widow of a landowner,
a wealthy and handsome young woman who had a house in our town. He
fell passionately in love with her, declared his feeling and tried
to persuade her to marry him. But she had already given her heart
to another man, an officer of noble birth and high rank in the
service, who was at that time away at the front, though she was
expecting him soon to return. She refused his offer and begged him
not to come and see her. After he had ceased to visit her, he took
advantage of his knowledge of the house to enter at night through
the garden by the roof, at great risk of discovery. But, as often
happens, a crime committed with extraordinary audacity is more
successful than others.

Entering the garret through the skylight, he went down the
ladder, knowing that the door at the bottom of it was sometimes,
through the negligence of the servants, left unlocked. He hoped to
find it so, and so it was. He made his way in the dark to her
bedroom, where a light was burning. As though on purpose, both her
maids had gone off to a birthday party in the same street, without
asking leave. The other servants slept in the servants' quarters or
in the kitchen on the ground floor. His passion flamed up at the
sight of her asleep, and then vindictive, jealous anger took
possession of his heart, and like a drunken man, beside himself, he
thrust a knife into her heart, so that she did not even cry out.
Then with devilish and criminal cunning he contrived that suspicion
should fall on the servants. He was so base as to take her purse,
to open her chest with keys from under her pillow, and to take some
things from it, doing it all as it might have been done by an
ignorant servant, leaving valuable papers and taking only money. He
took some of the larger gold things, but left smaller articles that
were ten times as valuable. He took with him, too, some things for
himself as remembrances, but of that later. Having done this awful
deed. he returned by the way he had come.

Neither the next day, when the alarm was raised, nor at any time
after in his life, did anyone dream of suspecting that he was the
criminal. No one indeed knew of his love for her, for he was always
reserved and silent and had no friend to whom he would have opened
his heart. He was looked upon simply as an acquaintance, and not a
very intimate one, of the murdered woman, as for the previous
fortnight he had not even visited her. A serf of hers called Pyotr
was at once suspected, and every circumstance confirmed the
suspicion. The man knew- indeed his mistress did not conceal the
fact- that having to send one of her serfs as a recruit she had
decided to send him, as he had no relations and his conduct was
unsatisfactory. People had heard him angrily threatening to murder
her when he was drunk in a tavern. Two days before her death, he
had run away, staying no one knew where in the town. The day after
the murder, he was found on the road leading out of the town, dead
drunk, with a knife in his pocket, and his right hand happened to
be stained with blood. He declared that his nose had been bleeding,
but no one believed him. The maids confessed that they had gone to
a party and that the street door had been left open till they
returned. And a number of similar details came to light, throwing
suspicion on the innocent servant.

They arrested him, and he was tried for the murder; but a week
after the arrest, the prisoner fell sick of a fever and died
unconscious in the hospital. There the matter ended and the judges
and the authorities and everyone in the town remained convinced
that the crime had been committed by no one but the servant who had
died in the hospital. And after that the punishment began.

My mysterious visitor, now my friend, told me that at first he
was not in the least troubled by pangs of conscience. He was
miserable a long time, but not for that reason; only from regret
that he had killed the woman he loved, that she was no more, that
in killing her he had killed his love, while the fire of passion
was still in his veins. But of the innocent blood he had shed, of
the murder of a fellow creature, he scarcely thought. The thought
that his victim might have become the wife of another man was
insupportable to him, and so, for a long time, he was convinced in
his conscience that he could not have acted otherwise.

At first he was worried at the arrest of the servant, but his
illness and death soon set his mind at rest, for the man's death
was apparently (so he reflected at the time) not owing to his
arrest or his fright, but a chill he had taken on the day he ran
away, when he had lain all night dead drunk on the damp ground. The
theft of the money and other things troubled him little, for he
argued that the theft had not been committed for gain but to avert
suspicion. The sum stolen was small, and he shortly afterwards
subscribed the whole of it, and much more, towards the funds for
maintaining an almshouse in the town. He did this on purpose to set
his conscience at rest about the theft, and it's a remarkable fact
that for a long time he really was at peace- he told me this
himself. He entered then upon a career of great activity in the
service, volunteered for a difficult and laborious duty, which
occupied him two years, and being a man of strong will almost
forgot the past. Whenever he recalled it, he tried not to think of
it at all. He became active in philanthropy too, founded and helped
to maintain many institutions in the town, did a good deal in the
two capitals, and in both Moscow and Petersburg was elected a
member of philanthropic societies.

At last, however, he began brooding over the past, and the
strain of it was too much for him. Then he was attracted by a fine
and intelligent girl and soon after married her, hoping that
marriage would dispel his lonely depression, and that by entering
on a new life and scrupulously doing his duty to his wife and
children, he would escape from old memories altogether. But the
very opposite of what he expected happened. He began, even in the
first month of his marriage, to be continually fretted by the
thought, "My wife loves me- but what if she knew?" When she first
told him that she would soon bear him a child, he was troubled. "I
am giving life, but I have taken life." Children came. "How dare I
love them, teach and educate them, how can I talk to them of
virtue? I have shed blood." They were splendid children, he longed
to caress them; "and I can't look at their innocent candid faces, I
am unworthy."

At last he began to be bitterly and ominously haunted by the
blood of his murdered victim, by the young life he had destroyed,
by the blood that cried out for vengeance. He had begun to have
awful dreams. But, being a man of fortitude, he bore his suffering
a long time, thinking: "I shall expiate everything by this secret
agony." But that hope, too, was vain; the longer it went on, the
more intense was his suffering.

He was respected in society for his active benevolence, though
everyone was overawed by his stern and gloomy character. But the
more he was respected, the more intolerable it was for him. He
confessed to me that he had thoughts of killing himself. But he
began to be haunted by another idea- an idea which he had at first
regarded as impossible and unthinkable, though at last it got such
a hold on his heart that he could not shake it off. He dreamed of
rising up, going out and confessing in the face of all men that he
had committed murder. For three years this dream had pursued him,
haunting him in different forms. At last he believed with his whole
heart that if he confessed his crime, he would heal his soul and
would be at peace for ever. But this belief filled his heart with
terror, for how could he carry it out? And then came what happened
at my duel.

