
"But you are not a king, anyway," Miusov muttered, losing his
self-restraint at once.

"Yes; that's true. I'm not a king, and, would you believe it,
Pyotr Alexandrovitch, I was aware of that myself. But, there! I
always say the wrong thing. Your reverence," he cried, with sudden
pathos, "you behold before you a buffoon in earnest! I introduce
myself as such. It's an old habit, alas! And if I sometimes talk
nonsense out of place it's with an object, with the object of
amusing people and making myself agreeable. One must be agreeable,
mustn't one? I was seven years ago in a little town where I had
business, and I made friends with some merchants there. We went to
the captain of police because we had to see him about something,
and to ask him to dine with us. He was a tall, fat, fair, sulky
man, the most dangerous type in such cases. It's their liver. I
went straight up to him, and with the ease of a man of the world,
you know, 'Mr. Ispravnik,' said I, 'be our Napravnik.' 'What do you
mean by Napravnik?' said he. I saw, at the first half-second, that
it had missed fire. He stood there so glum. 'I wanted to make a
joke,' said I, 'for the general diversion, as Mr. Napravnik is our
well-known Russian orchestra conductor and what we need for the
harmony of our undertaking is someone of that sort.' And I
explained my comparison very reasonably, didn't I? 'Excuse me,'
said he, 'I am an Ispravnik, and I do not allow puns to be made on
my calling.' He turned and walked away. I followed him, shouting,
'Yes, yes, you are an Ispravnik, not a Napravnik.' 'No,' he said,
'since you called me a Napravnik I am one.' And would you believe
it, it ruined our business! And I'm always like that, always like
that. Always injuring myself with my politeness. Once, many years
ago, I said to an influential person: 'Your wife is a ticklish
lady,' in an honourable sense, of the moral qualities, so to speak.
But he asked me, 'Why, have you tickled her?' I thought I'd be
polite, so I couldn't help saying, 'Yes,' and he gave me a fine
tickling on the spot. Only that happened long ago, so I'm not
ashamed to tell the story. I'm always injuring myself like
that."

"You're doing it now," muttered Miusov, with disgust.

Father Zossima scrutinised them both in silence.

"Am I? Would you believe it, I was aware of that, too, Pyotr
Alexandrovitch, and let tell you, indeed, I foresaw I should as
soon as I began to speak. And do you know I foresaw, too, that
you'd be the first to remark on it. The minute I see my joke isn't
coming off, your reverence, both my cheeks feel as though they were
drawn down to the lower jaw and there is almost a spasm in them.
That's been so since I was young, when I had to make jokes for my
living in noblemen's families. I am an inveterate buffoon, and have
been from birth up, your reverence, it's as though it were a craze
in me. I dare say it's a devil within me. But only a little one. A
more serious one would have chosen another lodging. But not your
soul, Pyotr Alexandrovitch; you're not a lodging worth having
either. But I do believe- I believe in God, though I have had
doubts of late. But now I sit and await words of wisdom. I'm like
the philosopher, Diderot, your reverence. Did you ever hear, most
Holy Father, how Diderot went to see the Metropolitan Platon, in
the time of the Empress Catherine? He went in and said straight
out, 'There is no God.' To which the great bishop lifted up his
finger and answered, 'The fool has said in his heart there is no
God and he fell down at his feet on the spot. 'I believe,' he
cried, 'and will be christened.' And so he was. Princess Dashkov
was his godmother, and Potyomkin his godfather."

"Fyodor Pavlovitch, this is unbearable! You know you're telling
lies and that that stupid anecdote isn't true. Why are you playing
the fool?" cried Miusov in a shaking voice.

"I suspected all my life that it wasn't true," Fyodor Pavlovitch
cried with conviction. "But I'll tell you the whole truth,
gentlemen. Great elder! Forgive me, the last thing about Diderot's
christening I made up just now. I never thought of it before. I
made it up to add piquancy. I play the fool, Pyotr Alexandrovitch,
to make myself agreeable. Though I really don't know myself,
sometimes, what I do it for. And as for Diderot, I heard as far as
'the fool hath said in his heart' twenty times from the gentry
about here when I was young. I heard your aunt, Pyotr
Alexandrovitch, tell the story. They all believe to this day that
the infidel Diderot came to dispute about God with the Metropolitan
Platon… ."

Miusov got up, forgetting himself in his impatience. He was
furious, and conscious of being ridiculous.

What was taking place in the cell was really incredible. For
forty or fifty years past, from the times of former elders, no
visitors had entered that cell without feelings of the profoundest
veneration. Almost everyone admitted to the cell felt that a great
favour was being shown him. Many remained kneeling during the whole
visit. Of those visitors, many had been men of high rank and
learning, some even free thinkers, attracted by curiosity, but all
without exception had shown the profoundest reverence and delicacy,
for here there was no question of money, but only, on the one side
love and kindness, and on the other penitence and eager desire to
decide some spiritual problem or crisis. So that such buffoonery
amazed and bewildered the spectators, or at least some of them. The
monks, with unchanged countenances, waited, with earnest attention,
to hear what the elder would say, but seemed on the point of
standing up, like Miusov. Alyosha stood, with hanging head, on the
verge of tears. What seemed to him strangest of all was that his
brother Ivan, on whom alone he had rested his hopes, and who alone
had such influence on his father that he could have stopped him,
sat now quite unmoved, with downcast eyes, apparently waiting with
interest to see how it would end, as though he had nothing to do
with it. Alyosha did not dare to look at Rakitin, the divinity
student, whom he knew almost intimately. He alone in the monastery
knew Rakitin's thoughts.

"Forgive me," began Miusov, addressing Father Zossima, "for
perhaps I seem to be taking part in this shameful foolery. I made a
mistake in believing that even a man like Fyodor Pavlovitch would
understand what was due on a visit to so honoured a personage. I
did not suppose I should have to apologise simply for having come
with him… ."

