


Chapter

3
Conversations and Exhortations of Father Zossima


(e) The Russian Monk and his possible Significance.

FATHERS and teachers, what is the monk? In the cultivated world
the word is nowadays pronounced by some people with a jeer, and by
others it is used as a term of abuse, and this contempt for the
monk is growing. It is true, alas, it is true, that there are many
sluggards, gluttons, profligates, and insolent beggars among monks.
Educated people point to these: "You are idlers, useless members of
society, you live on the labour of others, you are shameless
beggars." And yet how many meek and humble monks there are,
yearning for solitude and fervent prayer in peace! These are less
noticed, or passed over in silence. And how suprised men would be
if I were to say that from these meek monks, who yearn for solitary
prayer, the salvation of Russia will come perhaps once more! For
they are in truth made ready in peace and quiet "for the day and
the hour, the month and the year." Meanwhile, in their solitude,
they keep the image of Christ fair and undefiled, in the purity of
God's truth, from the times of the Fathers of old, the Apostles and
the martyrs. And when the time comes they will show it to the
tottering creeds of the world. That is a great thought. That star
will rise out of the East.

That is my view of the monk, and is it false? Is it too proud?
Look at the worldly and all who set themselves up above the people
of God; has not God's image and His truth been distorted in them?
They have science; but in science there is nothing but what is the
object of sense. The spiritual world, the higher part of man's
being is rejected altogether, dismissed with a sort of triumph,
even with hatred. The world has proclaimed the reign of freedom,
especially of late, but what do we see in this freedom of theirs?
Nothing but slavery and self-destruction! For the world says:

"You have desires and so satisfy them, for you have the same
rights as the most rich and powerful. Don't be afraid of satisfying
them and even multiply your desires." That is the modern doctrine
of the world. In that they see freedom. And what follows from this
right of multiplication of desires? In the rich, isolation and
spiritual suicide; in the poor, envy and murder; for they have been
given rights, but have not been shown the means of satisfying their
wants. They maintain that the world is getting more and more
united, more and more bound together in brotherly community, as it
overcomes distance and sets thoughts flying through the air.

Alas, put no faith in such a bond of union. Interpreting freedom
as the multiplication and rapid satisfaction of desires, men
distort their own nature, for many senseless and foolish desires
and habits and ridiculous fancies are fostered in them. They live
only for mutual envy, for luxury and ostentation. To have dinners
visits, carriages, rank, and slaves to wait on one is looked upon
as a necessity, for which life, honour and human feeling are
sacrificed, and men even commit suicide if they are unable to
satisfy it. We see the same thing among those who are not rich,
while the poor drown their unsatisfied need and their envy in
drunkenness. But soon they will drink blood instead of wine, they
are being led on to it. I ask you is such a man free? I knew one
"champion of freedom" who told me himself that, when he was
deprived of tobacco in prison, he was so wretched at the privation
that he almost went and betrayed his cause for the sake of getting
tobacco again! And such a man says, "I am fighting for the cause of
humanity."

How can such a one fight? What is he fit for? He is capable
perhaps of some action quickly over, but he cannot hold out long.
And it's no wonder that instead of gaining freedom they have sunk
into slavery, and instead of serving, the cause of brotherly love
and the union of humanity have fallen, on the contrary, into
dissension and isolation, as my mysterious visitor and teacher said
to me in my youth. And therefore the idea of the service of
humanity, of brotherly love and the solidarity of mankind, is more
and more dying out in the world, and indeed this idea is sometimes
treated with derision. For how can a man shake off his habits? What
can become of him if he is in such bondage to the habit of
satisfying the innumerable desires he has created for himself? He
is isolated, and what concern has he with the rest of humanity?
They have succeeded in accumulating a greater mass of objects, but
the joy in the world has grown less.

The monastic way is very different. Obedience, fasting, and
prayer are laughed at, yet only through them lies the way to real,
true freedom. I cut off my superfluous and unnecessary desires, I
subdue my proud and wanton will and chastise it with obedience, and
with God's help I attain freedom of spirit and with it spiritual
joy. Which is most capable of conceiving a great idea and serving
it- the rich in his isolation or the man who has freed himself from
the tyranny of material things and habits? The monk is reproached
for his solitude, "You have secluded yourself within the walls of
the monastery for your own salvation, and have forgotten the
brotherly service of humanity!" But we shall see which will be most
zealous in the cause of brotherly love. For it is not we, but they,
who are in isolation, though they don't see that. Of old, leaders
of the people came from among us, and why should they not again?
The same meek and humble ascetics will rise up and go out to work
for the great cause. The salvation of Russia comes from the people.
And the Russian monk has always been on the side of the people. We
are isolated only if the people are isolated. The people believe as
we do, and an unbelieving reformer will never do anything in
Russia, even if he is sincere in heart and a genius. Remember that!
The people will meet the atheist and overcome him, and Russia will
be one and orthodox. Take care of the peasant and guard his heart.
Go on educating him quietly. That's your duty as monks, for the
peasant has God in his heart.
