
(f) Of Masters and Servants, and of whether it is

possible for them to be Brothers in the Spirit.

Of course, I don't deny that there is sin in the peasants too.
And the fire of corruption is spreading visibly, hourly, working
from above downwards. The spirit of isolation is coming upon the
people too. Money-lenders and devourers of the commune are rising
up. Already the merchant grows more and more eager for rank, and
strives to show himself cultured though he has not a trace of
culture, and to this end meanly despises his old traditions, and is
even ashamed of the faith of his fathers. He visits princes, though
he is only a peasant corrupted. The peasants are rotting in
drunkenness and cannot shake off the habit. And what cruelty to
their wives, to their children even! All from drunkenness! I've
seen in the factories children of nine years old, frail, rickety,
bent and already depraved. The stuffy workshop, the din of
machinery, work all day long, the vile language and the drink, the
drink- is that what a little child's heart needs? He needs
sunshine, childish play, good examples all about him, and at least
a little love. There must be no more of this, monks, no more
torturing of children, rise up and preach that, make haste, make
haste!

But God will save Russia, for though the peasants are corrupted
and cannot renounce their filthy sin, yet they know it is cursed by
God and that they do wrong in sinning. So that our people still
believe in righteousness, have faith in God and weep tears of
devotion.

It is different with the upper classes. They, following science,
want to base justice on reason alone, but not with Christ, as
before, and they have already proclaimed that there is no crime,
that there is no sin. And that's consistent, for if you have no God
what is the meaning of crime? In Europe the people are already
rising up against the rich with violence, and the leaders of the
people are everywhere leading them to bloodshed, and teaching them
that their wrath is righteous. But their "wrath is accursed, for it
is cruel." But God will save Russia as He has saved her many times.
Salvation will come from the people, from their faith and their
meekness.

Fathers and teachers, watch over the people's faith and this
will not be a dream. I've been struck all my life in our great
people by their dignity, their true and seemly dignity. I've seen
it myself, I can testify to it, I've seen it and marvelled at it,
I've seen it in spite of the degraded sins and poverty-stricken
appearance of our peasantry. They are not servile, and even after
two centuries of serfdom they are free in manner and bearing, yet
without insolence, and not revengeful and not envious. "You are
rich and noble, you are clever and talented, well, be so, God bless
you. I respect you, but I know that I too am a man. By the very
fact that I respect you without envy I prove my dignity as a
man."

In truth if they don't say this (for they don't know how to say
this yet), that is how they act. I have seen it myself, I have
known it myself, and, would you believe it, the poorer our Russian
peasant is, the more noticeable is that serene goodness, for the
rich among them are for the most part corrupted already, and much
of that is due to our carelessness and indifference. But God will
save His people, for Russia is great in her humility. I dream of
seeing, and seem to see clearly already, our future. It will come
to pass that even the most corrupt of our rich will end by being
ashamed of his riches before the poor, and the poor, seeing his
humility, will understand and give way before him, will respond
joyfully and kindly to his honourable shame. Believe me that it
will end in that; things are moving to that. Equality is to be
found only in the spiritual dignity of man, and that will only be
understood among us. If we were brothers, there would be
fraternity, but before that they will never agree about the
division of wealth. We preserve the image of Christ, and it will
shine forth like a precious diamond to the whole world. So may it
be, so may it be!

Fathers and teachers, a touching incident befell me once. In my
wanderings I met in the town of K. my old orderly, Afanasy. It was
eight years since I had parted from him. He chanced to see me in
the market-place, recognised me, ran up to me, and how delighted he
was! He simply pounced on me: "Master dear, is it you? Is it really
you I see?" He took me home with him.

He was no longer in the army, he was married and already had two
little children. He and his wife earned their living as
costermongers in the market-place. His room was poor, but bright
and clean. He made me sit down, set the samovar, sent for his wife,
as though my appearance were a festival for them. He brought me his
children: "Bless them, Father."

"Is it for me to bless them? I am only a humble monk. I will
pray for them. And for you, Afanasy Pavlovitch, I have prayed every
day since that day, for it all came from you," said I. And I
explained that to him as well as I could. And what do you think?
The man kept gazing at me and could not believe that I, his former
master, an officer, was now before him in such a guise and
position; it made him shed tears.

