Pyotr Alexandrovitch could say no more, and was about to leave
the room, overwhelmed with confusion.

"Don't distress yourself, I beg." The elder got on to his feeble
legs, and taking Pyotr Alexandrovitch by both hands, made him sit
down again. "I beg you not to disturb yourself. I particularly beg
you to be my guest." And with a bow he went back and sat down again
on his little sofa.

"Great elder, speak! Do I annoy you by my vivacity?" Fyodor
Pavlovitch cried suddenly, clutching the arms of his chair in both
hands, as though ready to leap up from it if the answer were
unfavourable.

"I earnestly beg you, too, not to disturb yourself, and not to
be uneasy," the elder said impressively. "Do not trouble. Make
yourself quite at home. And, above all, do not be so ashamed of
yourself, for that is at the root of it all."

"Quite at home? To be my natural self? Oh, that is much too
much, but I accept it with grateful joy. Do you know, blessed
father, you'd better not invite me to be my natural self. Don't
risk it… . I will not go so far as that myself. I warn you for your
own sake. Well, the rest is still plunged in the mists of
uncertainty, though there are people who'd be pleased to describe
me for you. I mean that for you, Pyotr Alexandrovitch. But as for
you, holy being, let me tell you, I am brimming over with
ecstasy."

He got up, and throwing up his hands, declaimed, "Blessed be the
womb that bare thee, and the paps that gave thee suck- the paps
especially. When you said just now, 'Don't be so ashamed of
yourself, for that is at the root of it all,' you pierced right
through me by that remark, and read me to the core. Indeed, I
always feel when I meet people that I am lower than all, and that
they all take me for a buffoon. So I say, 'Let me really play the
buffoon. I am not afraid of your opinion, for you are every one of
you worse than I am.' That is why I am a buffoon. It is from shame,
great elder, from shame; it's simply over-sensitiveness that makes
me rowdy. If I had only been sure that everyone would accept me as
the kindest and wisest of men, oh, Lord, what a good man I should
have been then! Teacher!" he fell suddenly on his knees, "what must
I do to gain eternal life?"

It was difficult even now to decide whether he was joking or
really moved.

Father Zossima, lifting his eyes, looked at him, and said with a
smile:

"You have known for a long time what you must do. You have sense
enough: don't give way to drunkenness and incontinence of speech;
don't give way to sensual lust; and, above all, to the love of
money. And close your taverns. If you can't close all, at least two
or three. And, above all- don't lie."

"You mean about Diderot?"

"No, not about Diderot. Above all, don't lie to yourself. The
man who lies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to such a
pass that he cannot distinguish the truth within him, or around
him, and so loses all respect for himself and for others. And
having no respect he ceases to love, and in order to occupy and
distract himself without love he gives way to passions and coarse
pleasures, and sinks to bestiality in his vices, all from continual
lying to other men and to himself. The man who lies to himself can
be more easily offended than anyone. You know it is sometimes very
pleasant to take offence, isn't it? A man may know that nobody has
insulted him, but that he has invented the insult for himself, has
lied and exaggerated to make it picturesque, has caught at a word
and made a mountain out of a molehill- he knows that himself, yet
he will be the first to take offence, and will revel in his
resentment till he feels great pleasure in it, and so pass to
genuine vindictiveness. But get up, sit down, I beg you. All this,
too, is deceitful posturing… ."
