


Chapter

2
A
Critical Moment


FATHER PAISSY, of course, was not wrong when he decided that his
"dear boy" would come back again. Perhaps indeed, to some extent,
he penetrated with insight into the true meaning of Alyosha's
spiritual condition. Yet I must frankly own that it would be very
difficult for me to give a clear account of that strange, vague
moment in the life of the young hero I love so much. To Father
Paissy's sorrowful question, "Are you too with those of little
faith?" I could, of course, confidently answer for Alyosha, "No, he
is not with those of little faith. Quite the contrary." Indeed, all
his trouble came from the fact that he was of great faith. But
still the trouble was there and was so agonising that even long
afterwards Alyosha thought of that sorrowful day as one of the
bitterest and most fatal days of his life. If the question is
asked: "Could all his grief and disturbance have been only due to
the fact that his elder's body had shown signs of premature
decomposition instead of at once performing miracles?" I must
answer without beating about the bush, "Yes, it certainly was." I
would only beg the reader not to be in too great a hurry to laugh
at my young hero's pure heart. I am far from intending to apologise
for him or to justify his innocent faith on the ground of his
youth, or the little progress he had made in his studies, or any
such reason. I must declare, on the contrary, that I have genuine
respect for the qualities of his heart. No doubt a youth who
received impressions cautiously, whose love was lukewarm, and whose
mind was too prudent for his age and so of little value, such a
young man might, I admit, have avoided what happened to my hero.
But in some cases it is really more creditable to be carried away
by an emotion, however unreasonable, which springs from a great
love, than to be unmoved. And this is even truer in youth, for a
young man who is always sensible is to be suspected and is of
little worth- that's my opinion!

"But," reasonable people will exclaim perhaps, "every young man
cannot believe in such a superstition and your hero is no model for
others."

To this I reply again, "Yes! my hero had faith, a faith holy and
steadfast, but still I am not going to apologise for him."

Though I declared above, and perhaps too hastily, that I should
not explain or justify my hero, I see that some explanation is
necessary for the understanding of the rest of my story. Let me say
then, it was not a question of miracles. There was no frivolous and
impatient expectation of miracles in his mind. And Alyosha needed
no miracles at the time, for the triumph of some preconceived idea-
oh no, not at all- what he saw before all was one figure- the
figure of his beloved elder, the figure of that holy man whom he
revered with such adoration. The fact is that all the love that lay
concealed in his pure young heart for everyone and everything had,
for the past year, been concentrated- and perhaps wrongly so- on
one being, his beloved elder. It is true that being had for so long
been accepted by him as his ideal, that all his young strength and
energy could not but turn towards that ideal, even to the
forgetting at the moment "of everyone and everything." He
remembered afterwards how, on that terrible day, he had entirely
forgotten his brother Dmitri, about whom he had been so anxious and
troubled the day before; he had forgotten, too, to take the two
hundred roubles to Ilusha's father, though he had so warmly
intended to do so the preceding evening. But again it was not
miracles he needed but only "the higher justice" which had been in
his belief outraged by the blow that had so suddenly and cruelly
wounded his heart. And what does it signify that this "justice"
looked for by Alyosha inevitably took the shape of miracles to be
wrought immediately by the ashes of his adored teacher? Why,
everyone in the monastery cherished the same thought and the same
hope, even those whose intellects Alyosha revered, Father Paissy
himself, for instance. And so Alyosha, untroubled by doubts,
clothed his dreams too in the same form as all the rest. And a
whole year of life in the monastery had formed the habit of this
expectation in his heart. But it was justice, justice, he thirsted
for, not simply miracles.

And now the man who should, he believed, have been exalted above
everyone in the whole world, that man, instead of receiving the
glory that was his due, was suddenly degraded and dishonoured! What
for? Who had judged him? Who could have decreed this? Those were
the questions that wrung his inexperienced and virginal heart. He
could not endure without mortification, without resentment even,
that the holiest of holy men should have been exposed to the
jeering and spiteful mockery of the frivolous crowd so inferior to
him. Even had there been no miracles, had there been nothing
marvellous to justify his hopes, why this indignity, why this
humiliation, why this premature decay, "in excess of nature," as
the spiteful monks said? Why this "sign from heaven," which they so
triumphantly acclaimed in company with Father Ferapont, and why did
they believe they had gained the right to acclaim it? Where is the
finger of Providence? Why did Providence hide its face "at the most
critical moment" (so Alyosha thought it), as though voluntarily
submitting to the blind, dumb, pitiless laws of nature?

That was why Alyosha's heart was bleeding, and, of course, as I
have said already, the sting of it all was that the man he loved
above everything on earth should be put to shame and humiliated!
This murmuring may have been shallow and unreasonable in my hero,
but I repeat again for the third time- and am prepared to admit
that it might be difficult to defend my feeling- I am glad that my
hero showed himself not too reasonable at that moment, for any man
of sense will always come back to reason in time, but, if love does
not gain the upper hand in a boy's heart at such an exceptional
moment, when will it? I will not, however, omit to mention
something strange, which came for a time to the surface of
Alyosha's mind at this fatal and obscure moment. This new something
was the harassing impression left by the conversation with Ivan,
which now persistently haunted Alyosha's mind. At this moment it
haunted him. Oh, it was not that something of the fundamental,
elemental, so to speak, faith of his soul had been shaken. He loved
his God and believed in Him steadfastly, though he was suddenly
murmuring against Him. Yet a vague but tormenting and evil
impression left by his conversation with Ivan the day before,
suddenly revived again now in his soul and seemed forcing its way
to the surface of his consciousness.

It had begun to get dusk when Rakitin, crossing the pine copse
from the hermitage to the monastery, suddenly noticed Alyosha,
lying face downwards on the ground under a tree, not moving and
apparently asleep. He went up and called him by his name.
