
"Give me some vodka too."

"Hullo! You surprise me, brother!" Rakitin looked at him in
amazement. "Well, one way or another, vodka or sausage, this is a
jolly fine chance and mustn't be missed. Come along."

Alyosha got up in silence and followed Rakitin.

"If your little brother Ivan could see this wouldn't he be
surprised! By the way, your brother Ivan set off to Moscow this
morning, did you know?"

"Yes," answered Alyosha listlessly, and suddenly the image of
his brother Dmitri rose before his mind. But only for a minute, and
though it reminded him of something that must not be put off for a
moment, some duty, some terrible obligation, even that reminder
made no impression on him, did not reach his heart and instantly
faded out of his mind and was forgotten. But, a long while
afterwards, Alyosha remembered this.

"Your brother Ivan declared once that I was a 'liberal booby
with no talents whatsoever.' Once you, too, could not resist
letting me know I was 'dishonourable.' Well! I should like to see
what your talents and sense of honour will do for you now." This
phrase Rakitin finished to himself in a whisper.

"Listen!" he said aloud, "Let's go by the path beyond the
monastery straight to the town. H'm! I ought to go to Madame
Hohlakov's by the way. Only fancy, I've written to tell her
everything that happened, and would you believe it, she answered me
instantly in pencil (the lady has a passion for writing notes) that
'she would never have expected such conduct from a man of such a
reverend character as Father Zossima.' That was her very word:
'conduct.' She is angry too. Eh, you are a set! Stay!" he cried
suddenly again. He suddenly stopped and taking Alyosha by the
shoulder made him stop too.

"Do you know, Alyosha," he peeped inquisitively into his eyes,
absorbed in a sudden new thought which had dawned on him, and
though he was laughing outwardly he was evidently afraid to utter
that new idea aloud, so difficult he still found it to believe in
the strange and unexpected mood in which he now saw Alyosha.
"Alyosha, do you know where we had better go?" he brought out at
last timidly, and insinuatingly.

"I don't care… where you like."

"Let's go to Grushenka, eh? Will you come?" pronounced Rakitin
at last, trembling with timid suspense.

