Alyosha did not speak. He sat afraid to move, he heard her
words, "If you tell me, I'll get off," but he did not answer. But
there was nothing in his heart such as Rakitin, for instance,
watching him malignantly from his corner, might have expected or
fancied. The great grief in his heart swallowed up every sensation
that might have been aroused, and, if only he could have thought
clearly at that moment, he would have realised that he had now the
strongest armour to protect him from every lust and temptation. Yet
in spite of the vague irresponsiveness of his spiritual condition
and the sorrow that overwhelmed him, he could not help wondering at
a new and strange sensation in his heart. This woman, this
"dreadful" woman, had no terror for him now, none of that terror
that had stirred in his soul at any passing thought of woman. On
the contrary, this woman, dreaded above all women, sitting now on
his knee, holding him in her arms, aroused in him now a quite
different, unexpected, peculiar feeling, a feeling of the intensest
and purest interest without a trace of fear, of his former terror.
That was what instinctively surprised him.

"You've talked nonsense enough," cried Rakitin, "you'd much
better give us some champagne. You owe it me, you know you do!"

"Yes, I really do. Do you know, Alyosha, I promised him
champagne on the top of everything, if he'd bring you? I'll have
some too! Fenya, Fenya, bring us the bottle Mitya left! Look sharp!
Though I am so stingy, I'll stand a bottle, not for you, Rakitin,
you're a toadstool, but he is a falcon! And though my heart is full
of something very different, so be it, I'll drink with you. I long
for some dissipation."

"But what is the matter with you? And what is this message, may
I ask, or is it a secret?" Rakitin put in inquisitively, doing his
best to pretend not to notice the snubs that were being continually
aimed at him.

"Ech, it's not a secret, and you know it, too," Grushenka said,
in a voice suddenly anxious, turning her head towards Rakitin, and
drawing a little away from Alyosha, though she still sat on his
knee with her arm round his neck. "My officer is coming, Rakitin,
my officer is coming."

"I heard he was coming, but is he so near?"

"He is at Mokroe now; he'll send a messenger from there, so he
wrote; I got a letter from him to-day. I am expecting the messenger
every minute."

"You don't say so! Why at Mokroe?"

"That's a long story, I've told you enough."

"Mitya'll be up to something now- I say! Does he know or doesn't
he?"

"He know! Of course he doesn't. If he knew, there would be
murder. But I am not afraid of that now, I am not afraid of his
knife. Be quiet, Rakitin, don't remind me of Dmitri Fyodorovitch,
he has bruised my heart. And I don't want to think of that at this
moment. I can think of Alyosha here, I can look at Alyosha… smile
at me, dear, cheer up, smile at my foolishness, at my pleasure… .
Ah, he's smiling, he's smiling! How kindly he looks at me! And you
know, Alyosha, I've been thinking all this time you were angry with
me, because of the day before yesterday, because of that young
lady. I was a cur, that's the truth… . But it's a good thing it
happened so. It was a horrid thing, but a good thing too."
Grushenka smiled dreamily and a little cruel line showed in her
smile. "Mitya told me that she screamed out that I 'ought to be
flogged.' I did insult her dreadfully. She sent for me, she wanted
to make a conquest of me, to win me over with her chocolate… . No,
it's a good thing it did end like that." She smiled again. "But I
am still afraid of your being angry."
