"Let him alone, Alyosha, my cherub; you see what he is, he is
not a person for you to speak to. Mihail Osipovitch," she turned to
Rakitin, "I meant to beg your pardon for being rude to you, but now
I don't want to. Alyosha, come to me, sit down here." She beckoned
to him with a happy smile. "That's right, sit here. Tell me," she
took him by the hand and peeped into his face, smiling, "tell me,
do I love that man or not? The man who wronged me, do I love him or
not? Before you came, I lay here in the dark, asking my heart
whether I loved him. Decide for me, Alyosha, the time has come, it
shall be as you say. Am I to forgive him or not?"

"But you have forgiven him already," said Alyosha, smiling.

"Yes, I really have forgiven him," Grushenka murmured
thoughtfully. "What an abject heart! To my abject heart!" She
snatched up a glass from the table, emptied it at a gulp, lifted it
in the air and flung it on the floor. The glass broke with a crash.
A little cruel line came into her smile.

"Perhaps I haven't forgiven him, though," she said, with a sort
of menace in her voice, and she dropped her eyes to the ground as
though she were talking to herself. "Perhaps my heart is only
getting ready to forgive. I shall struggle with my heart. You see,
Alyosha, I've grown to love my tears in these five years… . Perhaps
I only love my resentment, not him… "

"Well, I shouldn't care to be in his shoes," hissed Rakitin.

"Well, you won't be, Rakitin, you'll never be in his shoes. You
shall black my shoes, Rakitin, that's the place you are fit for.
You'll never get a woman like me… and he won't either, perhaps…
"

"Won't he? Then why are you dressed up like that?" said Rakitin,
with a venomous sneer.

"Don't taunt me with dressing up, Rakitin, you don't know all
that is in my heart! If I choose to tear off my finery, I'll tear
it off at once, this minute," she cried in a resonant voice. "You
don't know what that finery is for, Rakitin! Perhaps I shall see
him and say: 'Have you ever seen me look like this before?' He left
me a thin, consumptive cry-baby of seventeen. I'll sit by him,
fascinate him and work him up. 'Do you see what I am like now?'
I'll say to him; 'well, and that's enough for you, my dear sir,
there's many a slip twixt the cup and the lip! That may be what the
finery is for, Rakitin." Grushenka finished with a malicious laugh.
"I'm violent and resentful, Alyosha, I'll tear off my finery, I'll
destroy my beauty, I'll scorch my face, slash it with a knife, and
turn beggar. If I choose, I won't go anywhere now to see anyone. If
I choose, I'll send Kuzma back all he has ever given me, to-morrow,
and all his money and I'll go out charing for the rest of my life.
You think I wouldn't do it, Rakitin, that I would not dare to do
it? I would, I would, I could do it directly, only don't exasperate
me… and I'll send him about his business, I'll snap my fingers in
his face, he shall never see me again!"

She uttered the last words in an hysterical scream, but broke
down again, hid her face in her hands, buried it in the pillow and
shook with sobs.

Rakitin got up.

"It's time we were off," he said, "it's late, we shall be shut
out of the monastery."
