"He has sent for me," she cried, her face white and distorted,
with a wan smile; "he whistles! Crawl back, little dog!"

But only for one instant she stood as though hesitating;
suddenly the blood rushed to her head and sent a glow to her
cheeks.

"I will go," she cried; "five years of my life! Good-bye!
Good-bye, Alyosha, my fate is sealed. Go, go, leave me all of you,
don't let me see you again! Grushenka is flying to a new life… .
Don't you remember evil against me either, Rakitin. I may be going
to my death! Ugh! I feel as though I were drunk!"

She suddenly left them and ran into her bedroom.

"Well, she has no thoughts for us now!" grumbled Rakitin. "Let's
go, or we may hear that feminine shriek again. I am sick of all
these tears and cries."

Alyosha mechanically let himself be led out. In the yard stood a
covered cart. Horses were being taken out of the shafts, men were
running to and fro with a lantern. Three fresh horses were being
led in at the open gate. But when Alyosha and Rakitin reached the
bottom of the steps, Grushenka's bedroom window was suddenly opened
and she called in a ringing voice after Alyosha:

"Alyosha, give my greetings to your brother Mitya and tell him
not to remember evil against me, though I have brought him misery.
And tell him, too, in my words: 'Grushenka has fallen to a
scoundrel, and not to you, noble heart.' And add, too, that
Grushenka loved him only one hour, only one short hour she loved
him- so let him remember that hour all his life-say, 'Grushenka
tells you to!'

She ended in a voice full of sobs. The window was shut with a
slam.

"H'm, h'm!" growled Rakitin, laughing, "she murders your brother
Mitya and then tells him to remember it all his life! What
ferocity!"

Alyosha made no reply, he seemed not to have heard. He walked
fast beside Rakitin as though in a terrible hurry. He was lost in
thought and moved mechanically. Rakitin felt a sudden twinge as
though he had been touched on an open wound. He had expected
something quite different by bringing Grushenka and Alyosha
together. Something very different from what he had hoped for had
happened.

"He is a Pole, that officer of hers," he began again,
restraining himself; "and indeed he is not an officer at all now.
He served in the customs in Siberia, somewhere on the Chinese
frontier, some puny little beggar of a Pole, I expect. Lost his
job, they say. He's heard now that Grushenka's saved a little
money, so he's turned up again- that's the explanation of the
mystery."
