


Chapter

2
Lyagavy


SO he must drive at full speed, and he had not the money for
horses. He had forty copecks, and that was all, all that was left
after so many years of prosperity! But he had at home an old silver
watch which had long ceased to go. He snatched it up and carried it
to a Jewish watch maker who had a shop in the market-place. The Jew
gave him six roubles for it.

"And I didn't expect that cried Mitya, ecstatically. (He was
still in a state of ecstasy.) He seized his six roubles and ran
home. At home he borrowed three roubles from the people of the
house, who loved him so much that they were pleased to give it him,
though it was all they had. Mitya in his excitement told them on
the spot that his fate would be decided that day, and he described,
in desperate haste, the whole scheme he had put before Samsonov,
the latter's decision, his own hopes for the future, and so on.
These people had been told many of their lodger's secrets before,
and so looked upon him as a gentleman who was not at all proud, and
almost one of themselves. Having thus collected nine roubles Mitya
sent for posting-horses to take him to the Volovya station. This
was how the fact came to be remembered and established that "at
midday, on the day before the event, Mitya had not a farthing, and
that he had sold his watch to get money and had borrowed three
roubles from his landlord, all in the presence of witnesses."

I note this fact, later on it will be apparent why I do so.

Though he was radiant with the joyful anticipation that he would
at last solve all his difficulties, yet, as he drew near Volovya
station, he trembled at the thought of what Grushenka might be
doing in his absence. What if she made up her mind to-day to go to
Fyodor Pavlovitch? This was why he had gone off without telling her
and why he left orders with his landlady not to let out where he
had gone, if anyone came to inquire for him.

"I must, I must get back to-night," he repeated, as he was
jolted along in the cart, "and I dare say I shall have to bring
this Lyagavy back here… to draw up the deed." So mused Mitya, with
a throbbing heart, but alas! his dreams were not fated to be
carried out.

To begin with, he was late, taking a short cut from Volovya
station which turned out to be eighteen versts instead of twelve.
Secondly, he did not find the priest at home at Ilyinskoe; he had
gone off to a neighbouring village. While Mitya, setting off there
with the same exhausted horses, was looking for him, it was almost
dark.

The priest, a shy and amiable looking little man, informed him
at once that though Lyagavy had been staying with him at first, he
was now at Suhoy Possyolok, that he was staying the night in the
forester's cottage, as he was buying timber there too. At Mitya's
urgent request that he would take him to Lyagavy at once, and by so
doing "save him, so to speak," the priest agreed, after some demur,
to conduct him to Suhoy Possyolok; his curiosity was obviously
aroused. But, unluckily, he advised their going on foot, as it
would not be "much over" a verst. Mitya, of course, agreed, and
marched off with his yard-long strides, so that the poor priest
almost ran after him. He was a very cautious man, though not
old.
