"It is yours, Dmitri Fyodorovitch," Madame Hohlakov cut in at
once. "The money is as good as in your pocket, not three thousand,
but three million, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, in less than no time. I'll
make you a present of the idea: you shall find gold mines, make
millions, return and become a leading man, and wake us up and lead
us to better things. Are we to leave it all to the Jews? You will
found institutions and enterprises of all sorts. You will help the
poor, and they will bless you. This is the age of railways, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch. You'll become famous and indispensable to the
Department of Finance, which is so badly off at present. The
depreciation of the rouble keeps me awake at night, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch; people don't know that side of me-"

"Madam, madam! Dmitri interrupted with an uneasy presentiment.
"I shall indeed, perhaps, follow your advice, your wise advice,
madam… . I shall perhaps set off… to the gold mines… . I'll come
and see you again about it… many times, indeed… but now, that three
thousand you so generously… oh, that would set me free, and if you
could to-day… you see, I haven't a minute, a minute to lose
to-day-"

"Enough, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, enough!" Madame Hohlakov
interrupted emphatically. "The question is, will you go to the gold
mines or not; have you quite made up your mind? Answer yes or
no."

"I will go, madam, afterwards… . I'll go where you like… but
now-"

"Wait!" cried Madame Hohlakov. And jumping up and running to a
handsome bureau with numerous little drawers, she began pulling out
one drawer after another, looking for something with desperate
haste.

"The three thousand," thought Mitya, his heart almost stopping,
"and at the instant… without any papers or formalities… that's
doing things in gentlemanly style! She's a splendid woman, if only
she didn't talk so much!"

"Here!" cried Madame Hohlakov, running back joyfully to Mitya,
"here is what I was looking for!"

It was a tiny silver ikon on a cord, such as is sometimes worn
next the skin with a cross.

"This is from Kiev, Dmitri Fyodorovitch," she went on
reverently, "from the relics of the Holy Martyr, Varvara. Let me
put it on your neck myself, and with it dedicate you to a new life,
to a new career."

And she actually put the cord round his neck, and began
arranging it. In extreme embarrassment, Mitya bent down and helped
her, and at last he got it under his neck-tie and collar through
his shirt to his chest.

"Now you can set off," Madame Hohlakov pronounced, sitting down
triumphantly in her place again.
