


Chapter

4
In
the Dark


WHERE was he running? "Where could she be except at Fyodor
Pavlovitch's? She must have run straight to him from Samsonov's,
that was clear now. The whole intrigue, the whole deceit was
evident."… It all rushed whirling through his mind. He did not run
to Marya Kondratyevna's. "There was no need to go there… not the
slightest need… he must raise no alarm… they would run and tell
directly… . Marya Kondratyevna was clearly in the plot, Smerdyakov
too, he too, all had been bought over!"

He formed another plan of action: he ran a long way round Fyodor
Pavlovitch's house, crossing the lane, running down Dmitrovsky
Street, then over the little bridge, and so came straight to the
deserted alley at the back, which was empty and uninhabited, with,
on one side the hurdle fence of a neighbour's kitchen-garden, on
the other the strong high fence that ran all round Fyodor
Pavlovitch's garden. Here he chose a spot, apparently the very
place, where according to the tradition, he knew Lizaveta had once
climbed over it: "If she could climb over it," the thought, God
knows why, occurred to him, "surely I can." He did in fact jump up,
and instantly contrived to catch hold of the top of the fence. Then
he vigorously pulled himself up and sat astride on it. Close by, in
the garden stood the bathhouse, but from the fence he could see the
lighted windows of the house too.

"Yes, the old man's bedroom is lighted up. She's there! and he
leapt from the fence into the garden. Though he knew Grigory was
ill and very likely Smerdyakov, too, and that there was no one to
hear him, he instinctively hid himself, stood still, and began to
listen. But there was dead silence on all sides and, as though of
design, complete stillness, not the slightest breath of wind.

"And naught but the whispering silence," the line for some
reason rose to his mind. "If only no one heard me jump over the
fence! I think not." Standing still for a minute, he walked softly
over the grass in the garden, avoiding the trees and shrubs. He
walked slowly, creeping stealthily at every step, listening to his
own footsteps. It took him five minutes to reach the lighted
window. He remembered that just under the window there were several
thick and high bushes of elder and whitebeam. The door from the
house into the garden on the left-hand side was shut; he had
carefully looked on purpose to see, in passing. At last he reached
the bushes and hid behind them. He held his breath. "I must wait
now," he thought, "to reassure them, in case they heard my
footsteps and are listening… if only I don't cough or sneeze."

He waited two minutes. His heart was beating violently, and, at
moments, he could scarcely breathe. "No, this throbbing at my heart
won't stop," he thought. "I can't wait any longer." He was standing
behind a bush in the shadow. The light of the window fell on the
front part of the bush.

"How red the whitebeam berries are!" he murmured, not knowing
why. Softly and noiselessly, step by step, he approached the
window, and raised himself on tiptoe. All Fyodor Pavlovitch's
bedroom lay open before him. It was not a large room, and was
divided in two parts by a red screen, "Chinese," as Fyodor
Pavlovitch used to call it. The word "Chinese" flashed into Mitya's
mind, "and behind the screen, is Grushenka," thought Mitya. He
began watching Fyodor Pavlovitch who was wearing his new
striped-silk dressing-gown, which Mitya had never seen, and a silk
cord with tassels round the waist. A clean, dandified shirt of fine
linen with gold studs peeped out under the collar of the
dressing-gown. On his head Fyodor Pavlovitch had the same red
bandage which Alyosha had seen.

"He has got himself up," thought Mitya.
