"Wait a minute," Pyotr Ilyitch intervened listening and watching
him uneasily, "you'd better go yourself and tell them. He'll muddle
it."

"He will, I see he will! Eh, Misha! Why, I was going to kiss you
for the commission… . If you don't make a mistake, there's ten
roubles for you, run along, make haste… . Champagne's the chief
thing, let them bring up champagne. And brandy, too, and red and
white wine, and all I had then… . They know what I had then."

"But listen!" Pyotr Ilyitch interrupted with some impatience. "I
say, let him simply run and change the money and tell them not to
close, and you go and tell them… . Give him your note. Be off,
Misha! Put your best leg forward!"

Pyotr Ilyitch seemed to hurry Misha off on purpose, because the
boy remained standing with his mouth and eyes wide open, apparently
understanding little of Mitya's orders, gazing up with amazement
and terror at his bloodstained face and the trembling blood-stained
fingers that held the notes.

"Well, now come and wash," said Pyotr Ilyitch sternly. "Put the
money on the table or else in your pocket… . That's right, come
along. But take off your coat."

And beginning to help him off with his coat, he cried out
again:

"Look, your coat's covered with blood, too!"

"That… it's not the coat. It's only a little here on the sleeve…
. And that's only here where the handkerchief lay. It must have
soaked through. I must have sat on the handkerchief at Fenya's, and
the blood's come through," Mitya explained at once with a
child-like unconsciousness that was astounding. Pyotr Ilyitch
listened, frowning.

"Well, you must have been up to something; you must have been
fighting with someone," he muttered.

They began to wash. Pyotr Ilyitch held the jug and poured out
the water. Mitya, in desperate haste, scarcely soaped his hands
(they were trembling, and Pyotr Ilyitch remembered it afterwards).
But the young official insisted on his soaping them thoroughly and
rubbing them more. He seemed to exercise more and more sway over
Mitya, as time went on. It may be noted in passing that he was a
young man of sturdy character.

"Look, you haven't got your nails clean. Now rub your face;
here, on your temples, by your ear… . Will you go in that shirt?
Where are you going? Look, all the cuff of your right sleeve is
covered with blood."
