


Chapter

6
"I
Am Coming, Too!"


BUT Dmitri Fyodorovitch was speeding along the road. It was a
little more than twenty versts to Mokroe, but Andrey's three horses
galloped at such a pace that the distance might be covered in an
hour and a quarter. The swift motion revived Mitya. The air was
fresh and cool, there were big stars shining in the sky. It was the
very night, and perhaps the very hour, in which Alyosha fell on the
earth, and rapturously swore to love it for ever and ever.

All was confusion, confusion in Mitya's soul, but although many
things were goading his heart, at that moment his whole being was
yearning for her, his queen, to whom he was flying to look on her
for the last time. One thing I can say for certain; his heart did
not waver for one instant. I shall perhaps not be believed when I
say that this jealous lover felt not the slightest jealousy of this
new rival, who seemed to have sprung out of the earth. If any other
had appeared on the scene, he would have been jealous at once, and
would-perhaps have stained his fierce hands with blood again. But
as he flew through the night, he felt no envy, no hostility even,
for the man who had been her first lover… . It is true he had not
yet seen him.

"Here there was no room for dispute: it was her right and his;
this was her first love which, after five years, she had not
forgotten; so she had loved him only for those five years, and I,
how do I come in? What right have I? Step aside, Mitya, and make
way! What am I now? Now everything is over apart from the officer
even if he had not appeared, everything would be over… "

These words would roughly have expressed his feelings, if he had
been capable of reasoning. But he could not reason at that moment.
His present plan of action had arisen without reasoning. At Fenya's
first words, it had sprung from feeling, and been adopted in a
flash, with all its consequences. And yet, in spite of his
resolution, there was confusion in his soul, an agonising
confusion: his resolution did not give him peace. There was so much
behind that tortured him. And it seemed strange to him, at moments,
to think that he had written his own sentence of death with pen and
paper: "I punish myself," and the paper was lying there in his
pocket, ready; the pistol was loaded; he had already resolved how,
next morning, he would meet the first warm ray of "golden-haired
Phoebus."

And yet he could not be quit of the past, of all that he had
left behind and that tortured him. He felt that miserably, and the
thought of it sank into his heart with despair. There was one
moment when he felt an impulse to stop Andrey, to jump out of the
cart, to pull out his loaded pistol, and to make an end of
everything without waiting for the dawn. But that moment flew by
like a spark. The horses galloped on, "devouring space," and as he
drew near his goal, again the thought of her, of her alone, took
more and more complete possession of his soul, chasing away the
fearful images that had been haunting it. Oh, how he longed to look
upon her, if only for a moment, if only from a distance!

"She's now with him," he thought, "now I shall see what she
looks like with him, her first love, and that's all I want." Never
had this woman, who was such a fateful influence in his life,
aroused such love in his breast, such new and unknown feeling,
surprising even to himself, a feeling tender to devoutness, to
self-effacement before her! "I will efface myself!" he said, in a
rush of almost hysterical ecstasy.

They had been galloping nearly an hour. Mitya was silent, and
though Andrey was, as a rule, a talkative peasant, he did not utter
a word, either. He seemed afraid to talk, he only whipped up
smartly his three lean, but mettlesome, bay horses. Suddenly Mitya
cried out in horrible anxiety:
