"And I put a rouble on the queen, the queen of hearts, the
pretty little panienotchka
[11]
he! he!"
laughed Maximov, pulling out his queen, and, as though trying to
conceal it from everyone, he moved right up and crossed himself
hurriedly under the table. Mitya won. The rouble won, too. "A
corner!" cried Mitya. "I'll bet another rouble, a 'single' stake,"
Maximov muttered gleefully, hugely delighted at having won a
rouble. "Lost!" shouted Mitya. "A 'double' on the seven!" The seven
too was trumped. "Stop!" cried Kalganov suddenly. "Double! Double!"
Mitya doubled his stakes, and each time he doubled the stake, the
card he doubled was trumped by the Poles. The rouble stakes kept
winning. "On the double!" shouted Mitya furiously. "You've lost two
hundred, panie. Will you stake another hundred?" the Pole on the
sofa inquired. "What? Lost two hundred already? Then another two
hundred! All doubles!" And pulling his money out of his pocket,
Mitya was about to fling two hundred roubles on the queen, but
Kalgonov covered it with his hand. "That's enough!" he shouted in
his ringing voice. "What's the matter?" Mitya stared at him.
"That's enough! I don't want you to play anymore. Don't!" "Why?"
"Because I don't. Hang it, come away. That's why. I won't let you
go on playing." Mitya gazed at him in astonishment. "Give it up,
Mitya. He may be right. You've lost a lot as it is," said
Grushenka, with a curious note in her voice. Both the Poles rose
from their seats with a deeply offended air. "Are you joking,
panie?" said the short man, looking severely at Kalganov. "How dare
you!" Pan Vrublevsky, too, growled at Kalganov. "Don't dare to
shout like that," cried Grushenka. "Ah, you turkey-cocks!" Mitya
looked at each of them in turn. But something in Grushenka's face
suddenly struck him, and at the same instant something new flashed
into his mind- a strange new thought! "Pani Agrippina," the little
Pole was beginning, crimson with anger, when Mitya suddenly went up
to him and slapped him on the shoulder. "Most illustrious, two
words with you."cried Grushenka. "What do you want?" "In the next
room, I've two words to say to you, something pleasant, very
pleasant. You'll be glad to hear it." The little pan was taken
aback and looked apprehensively at Mitya. He agreed at once,
however, on condition that Pan Vrublevsky went with them. "The
bodyguard? Let him come, and I want him, too. I must have him!"
cried Mitya. "March, panovie!" "Where are you going?" asked
Grushenka, anxiously. "We'll be back in one moment," answered
Mitya. There was a sort of boldness, a sudden confidence shining in
his eyes. His face had looked very different when he entered the
room an hour before. He led the Poles, not into the large room
where the chorus of girls was assembling and the table was being
laid, but into the bedroom on the right, where the trunks and
packages were kept, and there were two large beds, with pyramids of
cotton pillows on each. There was a lighted candle on a small deal
table in the corner. The small man and Mitya sat down to this
table, facing each other, while the huge Vrublevsky stood beside
them, his hands behind his back. The Poles looked severe but were
evidently inquisitive. "What can I do for you, panie?" lisped the
little Pole. "Well, look here, panie, I won't keep you long.
There's money for you," he pulled out his notes. "Would you like
three thousand? Take it and go your way." The Pole gazed open-eyed
at Mitya, with a searching look. "Three thousand, panie?" He
exchanged glances with Vrublevsky. "Three, panovie, three! Listen,
panie, I see you're a sensible man. Take three thousand and go to
the devil, and Vrublevsky with you d'you hear? But, at once, this
very minute, and for ever. You understand that, panie, for ever.
Here's the door, you go out of it. What have you got there, a
great-coat, a fur coat? I'll bring it out to you. They'll get the
horses out directly, and then-good-bye, panie!" Mitya awaited an
answer with assurance. He had no doubts. An expression of
extraordinary resolution passed over the Pole's face. "And the
money, panie?" "The money, panie? Five hundred roubles I'll give
you this moment for the journey, and as a first instalment, and two
thousand five hundred to-morrow, in the town- I swear on my honour,
I'll get it, I'll get it at any cost!" cried Mitya. The Poles
exchanged glances again. The short man's face looked more
forbidding. "Seven hundred, seven hundred, not five hundred, at
once, this minute, cash down!" Mitya added, feeling something
wrong. "What's the matter, panie? Don't you trust me? I can't give
you the whole three thousand straight off. If I give it, you may
come back to her to-morrow… . Besides, I haven't the three thousand
with me. I've got it at home in the town," faltered Mitya, his
spirit sinking at every word he uttered. "Upon my word, the money's
there, hidden." In an instant an extraordinary sense of personal
dignity showed itself in the little man's face. "What next?" he
asked ironically. "For shame!" and he spat on the floor. Pan
Vrublevsky spat too. "You do that, panie," said Mitya, recognising
with despair that all was over, "because you hope to make more out
of Grushenka? You're a couple of capons, that's what you are!"
"This is a mortal insult!" The little Pole turned as red as a crab,
and he went out of the room, briskly, as though unwilling to hear
another word. Vrublevsky swung out after him, and Mitya followed,
confused and crestfallen. He was afraid of Grushenka, afraid that
the Pan would at once raise an outcry. And so indeed he did. The
Pole walked into the room and threw himself in a theatrical
attitude before Grushenka. "Pani Agrippina, I have received a
mortal insult!" he exclaimed. But Grushenka suddenly lost all
patience, as though they had wounded her in the tenderest spot.
"Speak Russian! Speak Russian!" she cried, "not another word of
Polish! You used to talk Russian. You can't have forgotten it in
five years." She was red with passion. "Pani Agrippina-" "My name's
Agrafena, Grushenka, speak Russian or I won't listen!" The Pole
gasped with offended dignity, and quickly and pompously delivered
himself in broken Russian: "Pani Agrafena, I came here to forget
the past and forgive it, to forget all that has happened till
to-day-" "Forgive? Came here to forgive me?" Grushenka cut him
short, jumping up from her seat. "Just so, Pani, I'm not
pusillanimous, I'm magnanimous. But I was astounded when I saw your
lovers. Pan Mitya offered me three thousand, in the other room to
depart. I spat in the pan's face." "What? He offered you money for
me?" cried Grushenka, hysterically. "Is it true, Mitya? How dare
you? Am I for sale?" "Panie, panie!" yelled Mitya, "she's pure and
shining, and I have never been her lover! That's a lie… " "How dare
you defend me to him?" shrieked Grushenka. "It wasn't virtue kept
me pure, and it wasn't that I was afraid of Kuzma, but that I might
hold up my head when I met him, and tell him he's a scoundrel. And
he did actually refuse the money?" "He took it! He took it!" cried
Mitya; "only he wanted to get the whole three thousand at once, and
I could only give him seven hundred straight off." "I see: he heard
I had money, and came here to marry me!" "Pani Agrippina!" cried
the little Pole. "I'm- a knight, I'm- a nobleman, and not a lajdak.
I came here to make you my wife and I find you a different woman,
perverse and shameless." "Oh, go back where you came from! I'll
tell them to turn you out and you'll be turned out," cried
Grushenka, furious. "I've been a fool, a fool, to have been
miserable these five years! And it wasn't for his sake, it was my
anger made me miserable. And this isn't he at all! Was he like
this? It might be his father! Where did you get your wig from? He
was a falcon, but this is a gander. He used to laugh and sing to
me… . And I've been crying for five years, damned fool, abject,
shameless I was! She sank back in her low chair and hid her face in
her hands. At that instant the chorus of Mokroe began singing in
the room on the left- a rollicking dance song. "A regular Sodom!"
Vrublevsky roared suddenly. "Landlord, send the shameless hussies
away!" The landlord, who had been for some time past inquisitively
peeping in at the door, hearing shouts and guessing that his guests
were quarrelling, at once entered the room. "What are you shouting
for? D'you want to split your throat?" he said, addressing
Vrublevsky, with surprising rudeness. "Animal!" bellowed Pan
Vrublevsky. "Animal? And what sort of cards were you playing with
just now? I gave you a pack and you hid it. You played with marked
cards! I could send you to Siberia for playing with false cards,
d'you know that, for it's just the same as false banknotes… And
going up to the sofa he thrust his fingers between the sofa back
and the cushion, and pulled out an unopened pack of cards. "Here's
my pack unopened!" He held it up and showed it to all in the room.
"From where I stood I saw him slip my pack away, and put his in
place of it- you're a cheat and not a gentleman!" "And I twice saw
the pan change a card!" cried Kalganov. "How shameful! How
shameful!" exclaimed Grushenka, clasping her hands, and blushing
for genuine shame. "Good Lord, he's come to that!" "I thought so,
too!" said Mitya. But before he had uttered the words, Vrublevsky,
with a confused and infuriated face, shook his fist at Grushenka,
shouting: "You low harlot!" Mitya flew at him at once, clutched him
in both hands, lifted him in the air, and in one instant had
carried him into the room on the right, from which they had just
come. "I've laid him on the floor, there," he announced, returning
at once, gasping with excitement. "He's struggling, the scoundrel!
But he won't come back, no fear of that!… " He closed one half of
the folding doors, and holding the other ajar called out to the
little Pole: "Most illustrious, will you please to retire as well?"
"My dear Dmitri Fyodorovitch," said Trifon Borissovitch, "make them
give you back the money you lost. It's as good as stolen from you."
"I don't want my fifty roubles back," Kalgonov declared suddenly.
"I don't want my two hundred, either," cried Mitya, "I wouldn't
take it for anything! Let him keep it as a consolation." "Bravo,
Mitya! You're a trump, Mitya!" cried Grushenka, and there was a
note of fierce anger in the exclamation. The little pan, crimson
with fury but still mindful of his dignity, was making for the
door, but he stopped short and said suddenly, addressing Grushenka:
"Pani, if you want to come with me, come. If not, good-bye." And
swelling with indignation and importance he went to the door. This
was a man of character: he had so good an opinion of himself that
after all that had passed, he still expected that she would marry
him. Mitya slammed the door after him. "Lock it," said Kalganov.
But the key clicked on the other side, they had locked it from
within. "That's capital!" exclaimed Grushenka relentlessly. "Serve
them right!"




