
"Ask at the top of the stairs. If the lady wants to receive you,
she'll receive you. If she won't, she won't."

Pyotr Ilyitch went up, but did not find things so easy here. The
footman was unwilling to take in his name, but finally called a
maid. Pyotr Ilyitch politely but insistently begged her to inform
her lady that an official, living in the town, called Perhotin, had
called on particular business, and that if it were not of the
greatest importance he would not have ventured to come. "Tell her
in those words, in those words exactly," he asked the girl.

She went away. He remained waiting in the entry. Madame Hohlakov
herself was already in her bedroom, though not yet asleep. She had
felt upset ever since Mitya's visit, and had a presentiment that
she would not get through the night without the sick headache which
always, with her, followed such excitement. She was surprised on
hearing the announcement from the maid. She irritably declined to
see him, however, though the unexpected visit at such an hour, of
an "official living in the town," who was a total stranger, roused
her feminine curiosity intensely. But this time Pyotr Ilyitch was
as obstinate as a mule. He begged the maid most earnestly to take
another message in these very words:

"That he had come on business of the greatest importance, and
that Madame Hohlakov might have cause to regret it later, if she
refused to see him now."

"I plunged headlong," he described it afterwards.

The maid, gazing at him in amazement, went to take his message
again. Madame Hohlakov was impressed. She thought a little, asked
what he looked like, and learned that he was very well dressed,
young, and so polite." We may note, parenthetically, that Pyotr
Ilyitch was a rather good-looking young man, and well aware of the
fact. Madame Hohlakov made up her mind to see him. She was in her
dressing-gown and slippers, but she flung a black shawl over her
shoulders. "The official" was asked to walk into the drawing-room,
the very room in which Mitya had been received shortly before. The
lady came to meet her visitor, with a sternly inquiring
countenance, and, without asking him to sit down, began at once
with the question:

"What do you want?"

"I have ventured to disturb you, madam, on a matter concerning
our common acquaintance, Dmitri Fyodorovitch Karamazov," Perhotin
began.

But he had hardly uttered the name, when the lady's face showed
signs of acute irritation. She almost shrieked, and interrupted him
in a fury:

"How much longer am I to be worried by that awful man?" she
cried hysterically. "How dare you, sir, how could you venture to
disturb a lady who is a stranger to you, in her own house at such
an hour!… And to force yourself upon her to talk of a man who came
here, to this very drawing-room, only three hours ago, to murder
me, and went stamping out of the room, as no one would go out of a
decent house. Let me tell you, sir, that I shall lodge a complaint
against you, that I will not let it pass. Kindly leave me at once…
I am a mother… . I… I-"

