
Marfa Ignatyevna, the wife of old Grigory, who had been knocked
senseless near the fence, was sleeping soundly in her bed and might
well have slept till morning after the draught she had taken. But,
all of a sudden she waked up, no doubt roused by a fearful
epileptic scream from Smerdyakov, who was lying in the next room
unconscious. That scream always preceded his fits, and always
terrified and upset Marfa Ignatyevna. She could never get
accustomed to it. She jumped up and ran half-awake to Smerdyakov's
room. But it was dark there, and she could only hear the invalid
beginning to gasp and struggle. Then Marfa Ignatyevna herself
screamed out and was going to call her husband, but suddenly
realised that when she had got up, he was not beside her in bed.
She ran back to the bedstead and began groping with her hands, but
the bed was really empty. Then he must have gone out where? She ran
to the steps and timidly called him. She got no answer, of course,
but she caught the sound of groans far away in the garden in the
darkness. She listened. The groans were repeated, and it was
evident they came from the garden.

"Good Lord! just as it was with Lizaveta Smerdyashtchaya!" she
thought distractedly. She went timidly down the steps and saw that
the gate into the garden was open.

"He must be out there, poor dear," she thought. She went up to
the gate and all at once she distinctly heard Grigory calling her
by name, Marfa! Marfa!" in a weak, moaning, dreadful voice.

"Lord, preserve us from harm!" Marfa Ignatyevna murmured, and
ran towards the voice, and that was how she found Grigory. But she
found him not by the fence where he had been knocked down, but
about twenty paces off. It appeared later, that he had crawled away
on coming to himself, and probably had been a long time getting so
far, losing consciousness several times. She noticed at once that
he was covered with blood, and screamed at the top of her voice.
Grigory was muttering incoherently:

"He has murdered… his father murdered… . Why scream, silly… run…
fetch someone… "

But Marfa continued screaming, and seeing that her master's
window was open and that there was a candle alight in the window,
she ran there and began calling Fyodor Pavlovitch. But peeping in
at the window, she saw a fearful sight. Her master was lying on his
back, motionless, on the floor. His light-coloured dressing-gown
and white shirt were soaked with blood. The candle on the table
brightly lighted up the blood and the motionless dead face of
Fyodor Pavlovitch.

Terror-stricken, Marfa rushed away from the window, ran out of
the garden, drew the bolt of the big gate and ran headlong by the
back way to the neighbour, Marya Konndratyevna. Both mother and
daughter were asleep, but they waked up at Marfa's desperate and
persistent screaming and knocking at the shutter. Marfa, shrieking
and screaming incoherently, managed to tell them the main fact, and
to beg for assistance. It happened that Foma had come back from his
wanderings and was staying the night with them. They got him up
immediately and all three ran to the scene of the crime. On the
way, Marya Kondratyevna remembered that at about eight o'clock she
heard a dreadful scream from their garden, and this was no doubt
Grigory's scream, "Parricide!" uttered when he caught hold of
Mitya's leg.

"Some one person screamed out and then was silent," Marya
Kondratyevna explained as she ran. Running to the place where
Grigory lay, the two women with the help of Foma carried him to the
lodge. They lighted a candle and saw that Smerdyakov was no better,
that he was writhing in convulsions, his eyes fixed in a squint,
and that foam was flowing from his lips. They moistened Grigory's
forehead with water mixed with vinager, and the water revived him
at once. He asked immediately:

"Is the master murdered?"

Then Foma and both the women ran to the house and saw this time
that not only the window, but also the door into the garden was
wide open, though Fyodor Pavlovitch had for the last week locked
himself in every night and did not allow even Grigory to come in on
any pretext. Seeing that door open, they were afraid to go in to
Fyodor Pavlovitch "for fear anything should happen afterwards." And
when they returned to Grigory, the old man told them to go straight
to the police captain. Marya Kondratyevna ran there and gave the
alarm to the whole party at the police captain's. She arrived only
five minutes before Pyotr Ilyitch, so that his story came, not as
his own surmise and theory, but as the direct conformation by a
witness, of the theory held by all, as to the identity of the
criminal (a theory he had in the bottom of his heart refused to
believe till that moment).

