On the contrary. You've expressed all that so well, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch," Nikolay Parfenovitch answered with dignified
approbation.

"And enough of those trivial questions, gentlemen, all those
tricky questions! cried Mitya enthusiastically. "Or there's simply
no knowing where we shall get to! Is there?"

"I will follow your sensible advice entirely," the prosecutor
interposed, addressing Mitya. "I don't withdraw my question,
however. It is now vitally important for us to know exactly why you
needed that sum, I mean precisely three thousand."

"Why I needed it?… Oh, for one thing and another… . Well, it was
to pay a debt."

"A debt to whom?"

"That I absolutely refuse to answer, gentlemen. Not because I
couldn't, or because I shouldn't dare, or because it would be
damaging, for it's all a paltry matter and absolutely trifling,
but- I won't, because it's a matter of principle: that's my private
life, and I won't allow any intrusion into my private life. That's
my principle. Your question has no bearing on the case, and
whatever has nothing to do with the case is my private affair. I
wanted to pay a debt. I wanted to pay a debt of honour but to whom
I won't say."

"Allow me to make a note of that," said the prosecutor.

"By all means. Write down that I won't say, that I won't. Write
that I should think it dishonourable to say. Ech! you can write it;
you've nothing else to do with your time."

"Allow me to caution you, sir, and to remind you once more, if
you are unaware of it," the prosecutor began, with a peculiar and
stern impressiveness, "that you have a perfect right not to answer
the questions put to you now, and we on our side have no right to
extort an answer from you, if you decline to give it for one reason
or another. That is entirely a matter for your personal decision.
But it is our duty, on the other hand, in such cases as the
present, to explain and set before you the degree of injury you
will be doing yourself by refusing to give this or that piece of
evidence. After which I will beg you to continue."

"Gentlemen, I'm not angry… I… "Mitya muttered in a rather
disconcerted tone. "Well, gentlemen, you see, that Samsonov to whom
I went then… "

We will, of course, not reproduce his account of what is known
to the reader already. Mitya was impatiently anxious not to omit
the slightest detail. At the same time he was in a hurry to get it
over. But as he gave his evidence it was written down, and
therefore they had continually to pull him up. Mitya disliked this,
but submitted; got angry, though still good-humouredly. He did, it
is true, exclaim, from time to time, "Gentlemen, that's enough to
make an angel out of patience!" Or, "Gentlemen, it's no good your
irritating me."
