"It was shut. And who could open it? Bah! the door. Wait a bit!"
he seemed suddenly to bethink himself, and almost with a start:

"Why, did you find the door open?"

"Yes, it was open."

"Why, who could have opened it if you did not open it
yourselves?" cried Mitya, greatly astonished.

"The door stood open, and your father's murderer undoubtedly
went in at that door, and, having accomplished the crime, went out
again by the same door," the prosecutor pronounced deliberately, as
though chiselling out each word separately. "That is perfectly
clear. The murder was committed in the room and not through the
window; that is absolutely certain from the examination that has
been made, from the position of the body and everything. There can
be no doubt of that circumstance."

Mitya was absolutely dumbfounded.

"But that's utterly impossible!" he cried, completely at a loss.
"I… I didn't go in… . I tell you positively, definitely, the door
was shut the whole time I was in the garden, and when I ran out of
the garden. I only stood at the window and saw him through the
window. That's all, that's all… . I remember to the last minute.
And if I didn't remember, it would be just the same. I know it, for
no one knew the signals except Smerdyakov, and me, and the dead
man. And he wouldn't have opened the door to anyone in the world
without the signals."

"Signals? What signals?" asked the prosecutor, with greedy,
almost hysterical, curiosity. He instantly lost all trace of his
reserve and dignity. He asked the question with a sort of cringing
timidity. He scented an important fact of which he had known
nothing, and was already filled with dread that Mitya might be
unwilling to disclose it.

"So you didn't know!" Mitya winked at him with a malicious and
mocking smile. "What if I won't tell you? From whom could you find
out? No one knew about the signals except my father, Smerdyakov,
and me: that was all. Heaven knew, too, but it won't tell you. But
it's an interesting fact. There's no knowing what you might build
on it. Ha ha! Take comfort, gentlemen, I'll reveal it. You've some
foolish idea in your hearts. You don't know the man you have to
deal with! You have to do with a prisoner who gives evidence
against himself, to his own damage! Yes, for I'm a man of honour
and you- are not."

The prosecutor swallowed this without a murmur. He was trembling
with impatience to hear the new fact. Minutely and diffusely Mitya
told them everything about the signals invented by Fyodor
Pavlovitch for Smerdyakov. He told them exactly what every tap on
the window meant, tapped the signals on the table, and when Nikolay
Parfenovitch said that he supposed he, Mitya, had tapped the signal
"Grushenka has come," when he tapped to his father, he answered
precisely that he had tapped that signal, that "Grushenka had
come."

"So now you can build up your tower," Mitya broke off, and again
turned away from them contemptuously.
