"I simply didn't notice. You're quite right there, prosecutor,"
Mitya assented suddenly.

Next came the account of Mitya's sudden determination to "step
aside" and make way for their happiness. But he could not make up
his mind to open his heart to them as before, and tell them about
"the queen of his soul." He disliked speaking of her before these
chilly persons "who were fastening on him like bugs." And so in
response to their reiterated questions he answered briefly and
abruptly:

"Well, I made up my mind to kill myself. What had I left to live
for? That question stared me in the face. Her first rightful lover
had come back, the man who wronged her but who'd hurried back to
offer his love, after five years, and atone for the wrong with
marriage… . So I knew it was all over for me… . And behind me
disgrace, and that blood- Grigory's… . What had I to live for? So I
went to redeem the pistols I had pledged, to load them and put a
bullet in my brain to-morrow."

"And a grand feast the night before?"

"Yes, a grand feast the night before. Damn it all, gentlemen! Do
make haste and finish it. I meant to shoot myself not far from
here, beyond the village, and I'd planned to do it at five o'clock
in the morning. And I had a note in my pocket already. I wrote it
at Perhotin's when I loaded my pistols. Here's the letter. Read it!
It's not for you I tell it," he added contemptuously. He took it
from his waistcoat pocket and flung it on the table. The lawyers
read it with curiosity, and, as is usual, added it to the papers
connected with the case.

"And you didn't even think of washing your hands at Perhotin's?
You were not afraid then of arousing suspicion?"

"What suspicion? Suspicion or not, I should have galloped here
just the same, and shot myself at five o'clock, and you wouldn't
have been in time to do anything. If it hadn't been for what's
happened to my father, you would have known nothing about it, and
wouldn't have come here. Oh, it's the devil's doing. It was the
devil murdered father, it was through the devil that you found it
out so soon. How did you manage to get here so quick? It's
marvellous, a dream!"

"Mr. Perhotin informed us that when you came to him, you held in
your hands… your blood-stained hands… your money… a lot of money… a
bundle of hundred-rouble notes, and that his servant-boy saw it
too."

"That's true, gentlemen. I remember it was so."

"Now, there's one little point presents itself. Can you inform
us," Nikolay Parfenovitch began, with extreme gentleness, "where
did you get so much money all of a sudden, when it appears from the
facts, from the reckoning of time, that you had not been home?"

The prosecutor's brows contracted at the question being asked so
plainly, but he did not interrupt Nikolay Parfenovitch.
