


Chapter

8
The Evidences of the Witnesses. The Babe


THE examination of the witnesses began. But we will not continue
our story in such detail as before. And so we will not dwell on how
Nikolay Parfenovitch impressed on every witness called that he must
give his evidence in accordance with truth and conscience, and that
he would afterwards have to repeat his evidence on oath, how every
witness was called upon to sign the protocol of his evidence, and
so on. We will only note that the point principally insisted upon
in the examination was the question of the three thousand roubles;
that is, was the sum spent here, at Mokroe, by Mitya on the first
occasion, a month before, three thousand or fifteen hundred? And
again had he spent three thousand or fifteen hundred yesterday?
Alas, all the evidence given by everyone turned out to be against
Mitya. There was not one in his favour, and some witnesses
introduced new, almost crushing facts, in contradiction of his,
Mitya's, story.

The first witness examined was Trifon Borissovitch. He was not
in the least abashed as he stood before the lawyers. He had, on the
contrary, an air of stern and severe indignation with the accused,
which gave him an appearance of truthfulness and personal dignity.
He spoke little, and with reserve, waited to be questioned,
answered precisely and deliberately. Firmly and unhesitatingly he
bore witness that the sum spent a month before could not have been
less than three thousand, that all the peasants about here would
testify that they had heard the sum of three thousand mentioned by
Dmitri Fyodorovitch himself. "What a lot of money he flung away on
the Gypsy girls alone! He wasted a thousand, I daresay, on them
alone."

"I don't believe I gave them five hundred," was Mitya's gloomy
comment on this. "It's a pity I didn't count the money at the time,
but I was drunk… "

Mitya was sitting sideways with his back to the curtains. He
listened gloomily, with a melancholy and exhausted air, as though
he would say:

"Oh, say what you like. It makes no difference now."

"More than a thousand went on them, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,"
retorted Trifon Borissovitch firmly. "You flung it about at random
and they picked it up. They were a rascally, thievish lot,
horse-stealers, they've been driven away from here, or maybe they'd
bear witness themselves how much they got from you. I saw the sum
in your hands, myself- count it I didn't, you didn't let me, that's
true enough- but by the look of it I should say it was far more
than fifteen hundred… fifteen hundred, indeed! We've seen money
too. We can judge of amounts… "

As for the sum spent yesterday he asserted that Dmitri
Fyodorovitch had told him, as soon as he arrived, that he had
brought three thousand with him.
