"He certainly would have accepted it," Mitya declared warmly.
"Why, look here, he might have grabbed not two thousand, but four
or six, for it. He would have put his lawyers, Poles and Jews, on
to the job, and might have got, not three thousand, but the whole
property out of the old man."

The evidence of Pan Mussyalovitch was, of course, entered in the
protocol in the fullest detail. Then they let the Poles go. The
incident of the cheating at cards was hardly touched upon. Nikolay
Parfenovitch was too well pleased with them, as it was, and did not
want to worry them with trifles, moreover, it was nothing but a
foolish, drunken quarrel over cards. There had been drinking and
disorder enough, that night… . So the two hundred roubles remained
in the pockets of the Poles.

Then old Maximov was summoned. He came in timidly, approached
with little steps, looking very dishevelled and depressed. He had,
all this time, taken refuge below with Grushenka, sitting dumbly
beside her, and "now and then he'd begin blubbering over her and
wiping his eyes with a blue check handkerchief," as Mihail
Makarovitch described afterwards. So that she herself began trying
to pacify and comfort him. The old man at once confessed that he
had done wrong, that he had borrowed "ten roubles in my poverty,"
from Dmitri Fyodorovitch, and that he was ready to pay it back. To
Nikolay Parfenovitch's direct question, had he noticed how much
money Dmitri Fyodorovitch held in his hand, as he must have been
able to see the sum better than anyone when he took the note from
him, Maximov, in the most positive manner, declared that there was
twenty thousand.

"Have you ever seen so much as twenty thousand before, then?"
inquired Nikolay Parfenovitch, with a smile.

"To be sure I have, not twenty, but seven, when my wife
mortgaged my little property. She'd only let me look at it from a
distance, boasting of it to me. It was a very thick bundle, all
rainbow-coloured notes. And Dmitri Fyodorovitch's were all
rainbow-coloured… "

He was not kept long. At last it was Grushenka's turn. Nikolay
Parfenovitch was obviously apprehensive of the effect her
appearance might have on Mitya, and he muttered a few words of
admonition to him, but Mitya bowed his head in silence, giving him
to understand "that he would not make a scene." Mihail Makarovitch
himself led Grushenka in. She entered with a stern and gloomy face,
that looked almost composed, and sat down quietly on the chair
offered her by Nikolay Parfenovitch. She was very pale, she seemed
to be cold, and wrapped herself closely in her magnificent black
shawl. She was suffering from a slight feverish chill- the first
symptom of the long illness which followed that night. Her grave
air, her direct earnest look and quiet manner made a very
favourable impression on everyone. Nikolay Parfenovitch was even a
little bit "fascinated." He admitted himself, when talking about it
afterwards, that only then had he seen "how handsome the woman
was," for, though he had seen her several times he had always
looked upon her as something of a "provincial hetaira." "She has
the manners of the best society," he said enthusiastically,
gossiping about her in a circle of ladies. But this was received
with positive indignation by the ladies, who immediately called him
a "naughty man," to his great satisfaction.

As she entered the room, Grushenka only glanced for an instant
at Mitya, who looked at her uneasily. But her face reassured him at
once. After the first inevitable inquiries and warnings, Nikolay
Parfenovitch asked her, hesitating a little, but preserving the
most courteous manner, on what terms she was with the retired
lieutenant, Dmitri Fyodorovitch Karamazov. To this Grushenka firmly
and quietly replied:

"He was an acquaintance. He came to see me as an acquaintance
during the last month." To further inquisitive questions she
answered plainly and with complete frankness, that, though "at
times" she had thought him attractive, she had not loved him, but
had won his heart as well as his old father's "in my nasty spite,"
that she had seen that Mitya was very jealous of Fyodor Pavlovitch
and everyone else; but that had only amused her. She had never
meant to go to Fyodor Pavlovitch, she had simply been laughing at
him. "I had no thoughts for either of them all this last month. I
was expecting another man who had wronged me. But I think," she
said in conclusion, "that there's no need for you to inquire about
that, nor for me to answer you, for that's my own affair."

Nikolay Parfenovitch immediately acted upon this hint. He again
dismissed the "romantic" aspect of the case and passed to the
serious one, that is, to the question of most importance,
concerning the three thousand roubles. Grushenka confirmed the
statement that three thousand roubles had certainly been spent on
the first carousal at Mokroe, and, though she had not counted the
money herself, she had heard that it was three thousand from Dmitri
Fyodorovitch's own lips.

"Did he tell you that alone, or before someone else, or did you
only hear him speak of it to others in your presence?" the
prosecutor inquired immediately.

To which Grushenka replied that she had heard him say so before
other people, and had heard him say so when they were alone.
