"When I stood him drinks in the tavern, the man had quite a
different face," thought Mitya, as he got in. At the gates there
was a crowd of people, peasants, women, and drivers. Trifon
Borissovitch came down the steps too. All stared at Mitya.

"Forgive me at parting, good people!" Mitya shouted suddenly
from the cart.

"Forgive us too!" he heard two or three voices.

"Good-bye to you, too, Trifon Borissovitch!"

But Trifon Borissovitch did not even turn round. He was,
perhaps, too busy. He, too, was shouting and fussing about
something. It appeared that everything was not yet ready in the
second cart, in which two constables were to accompany Mavriky
Mavrikyevitch. The peasant who had been ordered to drive the second
cart was pulling on his smock, stoutly maintaining that it was not
his turn to go, but Akim's. But Akim was not to be seen. They ran
to look for him. The peasant persisted and besought them to
wait.

"You see what our peasants are, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch. They've
no shame!" exclaimed Trifon Borissovitch. "Akim gave you
twenty-five copecks the day before yesterday. You've drunk it all
and now you cry out. I'm simply surprised at your good-nature, with
our low peasants, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, that's all I can say."

"But what do we want a second cart for?" Mitya put in. "Let's
start with the one, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch. I won't be unruly, I
won't run away from you, old fellow. What do we want an escort
for?"

"I'll trouble you, sir, to learn how to speak to me if you've
never been taught. I'm not 'old fellow' to you, and you can keep
your advice for another time!" Mavriky Mavrikyevitch snapped out
savagely, as though glad to vent his wrath.

Mitya was reduced to silence. He flushed all over. A moment
later he felt suddenly very cold. The rain had ceased, but the dull
sky was still overcast with clouds, and a keen wind was blowing
straight in his face.

"I've taken a chill," thought Mitya, twitching his
shoulders.

At last Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, too, got into the cart, sat down
heavily, and, as though without noticing it, squeezed Mitya into
the corner. It is true that he was out of humour and greatly
disliked the task that had been laid upon him.
