


Chapter

1
Kolya Krassotkin


IT was the beginning of November. There had been a hard frost,
eleven degrees Reaumur, without snow, but a little dry snow had
fallen on the frozen ground during the night, and a keen dry wind
was lifting and blowing it along the dreary streets of our town,
especially about the market-place. It was a dull morning, but the
snow had ceased.

Not far from the market-place, close to Plotnikov's shop, there
stood a small house, very clean both without and within. It
belonged to Madame Krassotkin, the widow of a former provincial
secretary, who had been dead for fourteen years. His widow, still a
nice-looking woman of thirty-two, was living in her neat little
house on her private means. She lived in respectable seclusion; she
was of a soft but fairly cheerful disposition. She was about
eighteen at the time of her husband's death; she had been married
only a year and had just borne him a son. From the day of his death
she had devoted herself heart and soul to the bringing up of her
precious treasure, her boy Kolya. Though she had loved him
passionately those fourteen years, he had caused her far more
suffering than happiness. She had been trembling and fainting with
terror almost every day, afraid he would fall ill, would catch
cold, do something naughty, climb on a chair and fall off it, and
so on and so on. When Kolya began going to school, the mother
devoted herself to studying all the sciences with him so as to help
him, and go through his lessons with him. She hastened to make the
acquaintance of the teachers and their wives, even made up to
Kolya's schoolfellows, and fawned upon them in the hope of thus
saving Kolya from being teased, laughed at, or beaten by them. She
went so far that the boys actually began to mock at him on her
account and taunt him with being a "mother's darling."

But the boy could take his own part. He was a resolute boy,
"tremendously strong," as was rumoured in his class, and soon
proved to be the fact; he was agile, strong-willed, and of an
audacious and enterprising temper. He was good at lessons, and
there was a rumour in the school that he could beat the teacher,
Dardanelov, at arithmetic and universal history. Though he looked
down upon everyone, he was a good comrade and not supercilious. He
accepted his schoolfellows' respect as his due, but was friendly
with them. Above all, he knew where to draw the line. He could
restrain himself on occasion, and in his relations with the
teachers he never overstepped that last mystic limit beyond which a
prank becomes an unpardonable breach of discipline. But he was as
fond of mischief on every possible occasion as the smallest boy in
the school, and not so much for the sake of mischief as for
creating a sensation, inventing something, something effective and
conspicuous. He was extremely vain. He knew how to make even his
mother give way to him; he was almost despotic in his control of
her. She gave way to him, oh, she had given way to him for years.
The one thought unendurable to her was that her boy had no great
love for her. She was always fancying that Kolya was "unfeeling" to
her, and at times, dissolving into hysterical tears, she used to
reproach him with his coldness. The boy disliked this, and the more
demonstrations of feeling were demanded of him, the more he seemed
intentionally to avoid them. Yet it was not intentional on his part
but instinctive- it was his character. His mother was mistaken; he
was very fond of her. He only disliked "sheepish sentimentality,"
as he expressed it in his schoolboy language.

There was a bookcase in the house containing a few books that
had been his father's. Kolya was fond of reading, and had read
several of them by himself. His mother did not mind that and only
wondered sometimes at seeing the boy stand for hours by the
bookcase poring over a book instead of going to play. And in that
way Kolya read some things unsuitable for his age.

Though the boy, as a rule, knew where to draw the line in his
mischief, he had of late begun to play pranks that caused his
mother serious alarm. It is true there was nothing vicious in what
he did, but a wild mad recklessness.

It happened that July, during the summer holidays, that the
mother and son went to another district, forty-five miles away, to
spend a week with a distant relation, whose husband was an official
at the railway station (the very station, the nearest one to our
town, from which a month later Ivan Fyodorovitch Karamazov set off
for Moscow). There Kolya began by carefully investigating every
detail connected with the railways, knowing that he could impress
his schoolfellows when he got home with his newly acquired
knowledge. But there happened to be some other boys in the place
with whom he soon made friends. Some of them were living at the
station, others in the neighbourhood; there were six or seven of
them, all between twelve and fifteen, and two of them came from our
town. The boys played together, and on the fourth or fifth day of
Kolya's stay at the station, a mad bet was made by the foolish
boys. Kolya, who was almost the youngest of the party and rather
looked down upon by the others in consequence, was moved by vanity
or by reckless bravado to bet them two roubles that he would lie
down between the rails at night when the eleven o'clock train was
due, and would lie there without moving while the train rolled over
him at full speed. It is true they made a preliminary
investigation, from which it appeared that it was possible to lie
so flat between the rails that the train could pass over without
touching, but to lie there was no joke! Kolya maintained stoutly
that he would. At first they laughed at him, called him a little
liar, a braggart, but that only egged him on. What piqued him most
was that these boys of fifteen turned up their noses at him too
superciliously, and were at first disposed to treat him as "a small
boy," not fit to associate with them, and that was an unendurable
insult. And so it was resolved to go in the evening, half a mile
from the station, so that the train might have time to get up full
speed after leaving the station The boys assembled. It was a
pitch-dark night without a moon. At the time fixed, Kolya lay down
between the rails. The five others who had taken the bet waited
among the bushes below the embankment, their hearts beating with
suspense, which was followed by alarm and remorse. At last they
heard in the distance the rumble of the train leaving the station.
Two red lights gleamed out of the darkness; the monster roared as
it approached.

"Run, run away from the rails," the boys cried to Kolya from the
bushes, breathless with terror. But it was too late: the train
darted up and flew past. The boys rushed to Kolya. He lay without
moving. They began pulling at him, lifting him up. He suddenly got
up and walked away without a word. Then he explained that he had
lain there as though he were insensible to frighten them, but the
fact was that he really had lost consciousness, as he confessed
long after to his mother. In this way his reputation as "a
desperate character," was established for ever. He returned home to
the station as white as a sheet. Next day he had a slight attack of
nervous fever, but he was in high spirits and well pleased with
himself. The incident did not become known at once, but when they
came back to the town it penetrated to the school and even reached
the ears of the masters. But then Kolya's mother hastened to
entreat the masters on her boy's behalf, and in the end Dardanelov,
a respected and influential teacher, exerted himself in his favour,
and the affair was ignored.
