
Dmitri's entrance had taken no more than two minutes, and the
conversation was resumed. But this time Miusov thought it
unnecessary to reply to Father Paissy's persistent and almost
irritable question.

"Allow me to withdraw from this discussion," he observed with a
certain well-bred nonchalance. "It's a subtle question, too. Here
Ivan Fyodorovitch is smiling at us. He must have something
interesting to say about that also. Ask him."

"Nothing special, except one little remark," Ivan replied at
once. "European Liberals in general, and even our liberal
dilettanti, often mix up the final results of socialism with those
of Christianity. This wild notion is, of course, a characteristic
feature. But it's not only Liberals and dilettanti who mix up
socialism and Christianity, but, in many cases, it appears, the
police- the foreign police, of course- do the same. Your Paris
anecdote is rather to the point, Pyotr Alexandrovitch."

"I ask your permission to drop this subject altogether," Miusov
repeated. "I will tell you instead, gentlemen, another interesting
and rather characteristic anecdote of Ivan Fyodorovitch himself.
Only five days ago, in a gathering here, principally of ladies, he
solemnly declared in argument that there was nothing in the whole
world to make men love their neighbours. That there was no law of
nature that man should love mankind, and that, if there had been
any love on earth hitherto, it was not owing to a natural law, but
simply because men have believed in immortality. Ivan Fyodorovitch
added in parenthesis that the whole natural law lies in that faith,
and that if you were to destroy in mankind the belief in
immortality, not only love but every living force maintaining the
life of the world would at once be dried up. Moreover, nothing then
would be immoral, everything would be lawful, even cannibalism.
That's not all. He ended by asserting that for every individual,
like ourselves, who does not believe in God or immortality, the
moral law of nature must immediately be changed into the exact
contrary of the former religious law, and that egoism, even to
crime, must become not only lawful but even recognised as the
inevitable, the most rational, even honourable outcome of his
position. From this paradox, gentlemen, you can judge of the rest
of our eccentric and paradoxical friend Ivan Fyodorovitch's
theories."

"Excuse me," Dmitri cried suddenly; "if I've heard aright, crime
must not only be permitted but even recognised as the inevitable
and the most rational outcome of his position for every infidel! Is
that so or not?"

"Quite so," said Father Paissy.

"I'll remember it."

Having uttered these words Dmitri ceased speaking as suddenly as
he had begun. Everyone looked at him with curiosity.

"Is that really your conviction as to the consequences of the
disappearance of the faith in immortality?" the elder asked Ivan
suddenly.

"Yes. That was my contention. There is no virtue if there is no
immortality."

