And Kolya hurriedly pulled out of his satchel the little bronze
cannon. He hurried, because he was happy himself. Another time he
would have waited till the sensation made by Perezvon had passed
off, now he hurried on, regardless of all consideration. "You are
all happy now," he felt, "so here's something to make you happier!"
He was perfectly enchanted himself.

"I've been coveting this thing for a long while; it's for you,
old man, it's for you. It belonged to Morozov, it was no use to
him, he had it from his brother. I swopped a book from father's
book-case for it, A Kinsman of Mahomet, or Salutary Folly, a
scandalous book published in Moscow a hundred years ago, before
they had any censorship. And Morozov has a taste for such things.
He was grateful to me, too… ."

Kolya held the cannon in his hand so that all could see and
admire it. Ilusha raised himself, and, with his right arm still
round the dog, he gazed enchanted at the toy. The sensation was
even greater when Kolya announced that he had gunpowder too, and
that it could be fired off at once "if it won't alarm the ladies."
"Mamma" immediately asked to look at the toy closer and her request
was granted. She was much pleased with the little bronze cannon on
wheels and began rolling it to and fro on her lap. She readily gave
permission for the cannon to be fired, without any idea of what she
had been asked. Kolya showed the powder and the shot. The captain,
as a military man, undertook to load it, putting in a minute
quantity of powder. He asked that the shot might be put off till
another time. The cannon was put on the floor, aiming towards an
empty part of the room, three grains of powder were thrust into the
touchhole and a match was put to it. A magnificent explosion
followed. Mamma was startled, but at once laughed with delight. The
boys gazed in speechless triumph. But the captain, looking at
Ilusha, was more enchanted than any of them. Kolya picked up the
cannon and immediately presented it to Ilusha, together with the
powder and the shot.

"I got it for you, for you! I've been keeping it for you a long
time," he repeated once more in his delight.

"Oh, give it to me! No, give me the cannon!" mamma began begging
like a little child. Her face showed a piteous fear that she would
not get it. Kolya was disconcerted. The captain fidgeted
uneasily.

"Mamma, mamma," he ran to her, "the cannon's yours, of course,
but let Ilusha have it, because it's a present to him, but it's
just as good as yours. Ilusha will always let you play with it; it
shall belong to both of you, both of you."

"No, I don't want it to belong to both of us; I want it to be
mine altogether, not Ilusha's," persisted mamma, on the point of
tears.

"Take it, mother, here, keep it!" Ilusha cried. "Krassotkin, may
I give it to my mother?" he turned to Krassotkin with an imploring
face, as though he were afraid he might be offended at his giving
his present to someone else.

"Of course you may," Krassotkin assented heartily, and, taking
the cannon from Ilusha, he handed it himself to mamma with a polite
bow. She was so touched that she cried.

"Ilusha, darling, he's the one who loves his mammal" she said
tenderly, and at once began wheeling the cannon to and fro on her
lap again.

"Mamma, let me kiss your hand." The captain darted up to her at
once and did so.
