
"You've come at last!" she cried, flinging down the cards and
joyfully greeting Alyosha, "and Maximushka's been scaring me that
perhaps you wouldn't come. Ah, how I need you! Sit down to the
table. What will you have coffee?"

"Yes, please," said Alyosha, sitting down at the table. "I am
very hungry."

"That's right. Fenya, Fenya, coffee," cried Grushenka. "It's
been made a long time ready for you. And bring some little pies,
and mind they are hot. Do you know, we've had a storm over those
pies to-day. I took them to the prison for him, and would you
believe it, he threw them back to me: he would not eat them. He
flung one of them on the floor and stamped on it. So I said to him:
'I shall leave them with the warder; if you don't eat them before
evening, it will be that your venomous spite is enough for you!'
With that I went away. We quarrelled again, would you believe it?
Whenever I go we quarrel."

Grushenka said all this in one breath in her agitation. Maximov,
feeling nervous, at once smiled and looked on the floor.

"What did you quarrel about this time?" asked Alyosha.

"I didn't expect it in the least. Only fancy, he is jealous of
the Pole. 'Why are you keeping him?' he said. 'So you've begun
keeping him.' He is jealous, jealous of me all the time, jealous
eating and sleeping! He even took into his head to be jealous of
Kuzma last week."

"But he knew about the Pole before?"

"Yes, but there it is. He has known about him from the very
beginning but to-day he suddenly got up and began scolding about
him. I am ashamed to repeat what he said. Silly fellow! Rakitin
went in as I came out. Perhaps Rakitin is egging him on. What do
you think?" she added carelessly.

"He loves you, that's what it is; he loves you so much. And now
he is particularly worried."

"I should think he might be, with the trial to-morrow. And I
went to him to say something about to-morrow, for I dread to think
what's going to happen then. You say that he is worried, but how
worried I am! And he talks about the Pole! He's too silly! He is
not jealous of Maximushka yet, anyway."

