
"There… there! What a girl I am! Blurting things out!" exclaimed
Grushenka, confused and suddenly blushing. "Stay, Alyosha, hush!
Since I've said so much I'll tell the whole truth- he's been to see
him twice, the first directly he arrived. He galloped here from
Moscow at once, of course, before I was taken ill; and the second
time was a week ago. He told Mitya not to tell you about it, under
any circumstances; and not to tell anyone, in fact. He came
secretly."

Alyosha sat plunged in thought, considering something. The news
evidently impressed him.

"Ivan doesn't talk to me of Mitya's case," he said slowly. "He's
said very little to me these last two months. And whenever I go to
see him, he seems vexed at my coming, so I've not been to him for
the last three weeks. H'm!… if he was there a week ago… there
certainly has been a change in Mitya this week."

"There has been a change," Grushenka assented quickly. "They
have a secret, they have a secret! Mitya told me himself there was
a secret, and such a secret that Mitya can't rest. Before then, he
was cheerful- and, indeed, he is cheerful now- but when he shakes
his head like that, you know, and strides about the room and keeps
pulling at the hair on his right temple with his right hand, I know
there is something on his mind worrying him… . I know! He was
cheerful before, though, indeed, he is cheerful to-day."

"But you said he was worried."

"Yes, he is worried and yet cheerful. He keeps on being
irritable for a minute and then cheerful and then irritable again.
And you know, Alyosha, I am constantly wondering at him- with this
awful thing hanging over him, he sometimes laughs at such trifles
as though he were a baby himself."

"And did he really tell you not to tell me about Ivan? Did he
say, 'Don't tell him'?"

"Yes, he told me, 'Don't tell him.' It's you that Mitya's most
afraid of. Because it's a secret: he said himself it was a secret.
Alyosha, darling, go to him and find out what their secret is and
come and tell me," Grushenka besought him with sudden eagerness.
"Set my mind at rest that I may know the worst that's in store for
me. That's why I sent for you."

"You think it's something to do with you? If it were, he
wouldn't have told you there was a secret."

"I don't know. Perhaps he wants to tell me, but doesn't dare to.
He warns me. There is a secret, he tells me, but he won't tell me
what it is."

