"What do you think yourself?"

"What do I think? It's the end for me, that's what I think. They
all three have been plotting my end, for Katerina's in it. It's all
Katerina, it all comes from her. She is this and that, and that
means that I am not. He tells me that beforehand- warns me. He is
planning to throw me over, that's the whole secret. They've planned
it together, the three of them- Mitya, Katerina, and Ivan
Fyodorovitch. Alyosha, I've been wanting to ask you a long time. A
week ago he suddenly told me that Ivan was in love with Katerina,
because he often goes to see her. Did he tell me the truth or not?
Tell me, on your conscience, tell me the worst."

"I won't tell you a lie. Ivan is not in love with Katerina
Ivanovna, I think."

"Oh, that's what I thought! He is lying to me, shameless
deceiver, that's what it is! And he was jealous of me just now, so
as to put the blame on me afterwards. He is stupid, he can't
disguise what he is doing; he is so open, you know… . But I'll give
it to him, I'll give it to him! 'You believe I did it,' he said. He
said that to me, to me. He reproached me with that! God forgive
him! You wait, I'll make it hot for Katerina at the trial! I'll
just say a word then… I'll tell everything then!" And again she
cried bitterly.

"This I can tell you for certain, Grushenka," Alyosha said,
getting up. "First, that he loves you, loves you more than anyone
in the world, and you only, believe me. I know. I do know. The
second thing is that I don't want to worm his secret out of him,
but if he'll tell me of himself to-day, I shall tell him straight
out that I have promised to tell you. Then I'll come to you to-day
and tell you. Only… I fancy… Katerina Ivanovna has nothing to do
with it, and that the secret is about something else. That's
certain. It isn't likely it's about Katerina Ivanovna, it seems to
me. Good-bye for now."

Alyosha shook hands with her. Grushenka was still crying. He saw
that she put little faith in his consolation, but she was better
for having had her sorrow out, for having spoken of it. He was
sorry to leave her in such a state of mind, but he was in haste. He
had a great many things to do still.




