


Chapter

2
The Injured Foot


THE first of these things was at the house of Madame Hohlakov,
and he hurried there to get it over as quickly as possible and not
be too late for Mitya. Madame Hohlakov had been slightly ailing for
the last three weeks: her foot had for some reason swollen up, and
though she was not in bed, she lay all day half-reclining on the
couch in her boudoir, in a fascinating but decorous deshabille.
Alyosha had once noted with innocent amusement that, in spite of
her illness, Madame Hohlakov had begun to be rather dressy-
topknots, ribbons, loose wrappers had made their appearance, and he
had an inkling of the reason, though he dismissed such ideas from
his mind as frivolous. During the last two months the young
official, Perhotin, had become a regular visitor at the house.

Alyosha had not called for four days and he was in haste to go
straight to Lise, as it was with her he had to speak, for Lise had
sent a maid to him the previous day specially asking him to come to
her "about something very important," a request which, for certain
reasons, had interest for Alyosha. But while the maid went to take
his name in to Lise, Madame Hohlakov heard of his arrival from
someone, and immediately sent to beg him to come to her "just for
one minute." Alyosha reflected that it was better to accede to the
mamma's request, or else she would be sending down to Lise's room
every minute that he was there. Madame Hohlakov was lying on a
couch. She was particularly smartly dressed and was evidently in a
state of extreme nervous excitement. She greeted Alyosha with cries
of rapture.

"It's ages, ages, perfect ages since I've seen you! It's a whole
week- only think of it! Ah, but you were here only four days ago,
on Wednesday. You have come to see Lise. I'm sure you meant to slip
into her room on tiptoe, without my hearing you. My dear, dear
Alexey Fyodorovitch, if you only knew how worried I am about her!
But of that later, though that's the most important thing, of that
later. Dear Alexey Fyodorovitch, I trust you implicitly with my
Lise. Since the death of Father Zossima- God rest his soul!" (she
crossed herself)- "I look upon you as a monk, though you look
charming in your new suit. Where did you find such a tailor in
these parts? No, no, that's not the chief thing- of that later.
Forgive me for sometimes calling you Alyosha; an old woman like me
may take liberties," she smiled coquettishly; "but that will do
later, too. The important thing is that I shouldn't forget what is
important. Please remind me of it yourself. As soon as my tongue
runs away with me, you just say 'the important thing?' Ach! how do
I know now what is of most importance? Ever since Lise took back
her promise- her childish promise, Alexey Fyodorovitch- to marry
you, you've realised, of course, that it was only the playful fancy
of a sick child who had been so long confined to her chair- thank
God, she can walk now!… that-new doctor Katya sent for from Moscow
for your unhappy brother, who will to-morrow- but why speak of
to-morrow? I am ready to die at the very thought of to-morrow.
Ready to die of curiosity… . That doctor was with us yesterday and
saw Lise… . I paid him fifty roubles for the visit. But that's not
the point, that's not the point again. You see, I'm mixing
everything up. I am in such a hurry. Why am I in a hurry? I don't
understand. It's awful how I seem growing unable to understand
anything. Everything seems mixed up in a sort of tangle. I am
afraid you are so bored you will jump up and run away, and that
will be all I shall see of you. Goodness! Why are we sitting here
and no coffee? Yulia, Glafira, coffee!"

Alyosha made haste to thank her, and said that he had only just
had coffee.

"Where?"

"At Agrfena Alexandrovna's."

"At… at that woman's? Ah, it's she has brought ruin on everyone.
I know nothing about it though. They say she has become a saint,
though it's rather late in the day. She had better have done it
before. What use is it now? Hush, hush, Alexey Fyodorovitch, for I
have so much to say to you that I am afraid I shall tell you
nothing. This awful trial… I shall certainly go, I am making
arrangements. I shall be carried there in my chair; besides I can
sit up. I shall have people with me. And, you know, I am a witness.
How shall I speak, how shall I speak? I don't know what I shall
say. One has to take an oath, hasn't one?"
