"I know that you asked him not to visit you for the future, but
why it was, I haven't heard… from you, at least."

"Ah, then you've heard it from him! He abuses me, I suppose,
abuses me dreadfully?"

"Yes, he does; but then he abuses everyone. But why you've given
him up I, haven't heard from him either. I meet him very seldom
now, indeed. We are not friends."

"Well, then, I'll tell you all about it. There's no help for it,
I'll confess, for there is one point in which I was perhaps to
blame. Only a little, little point, so little that perhaps it
doesn't count. You see, my dear boy"- Madame Hohlakov suddenly
looked arch and a charming, though enigmatic, smile played about
her lips- "you see, I suspect… You must forgive me, Alyosha. I am
like a mother to you… No, no; quite the contrary. I speak to you
now as though you were my father- mother's quite out of place.
Well, it's as though I were confessing to Father Zossima, that's
just it. I called you a monk just now. Well, that poor young man,
your friend, Rakitin (Mercy on us! I can't be angry with him. I
feel cross, but not very), that frivolous young man, would you
believe it, seems to have taken it into his head to fall in love
with me. I only noticed it later. At first- a month ago- he only
began to come oftener to see me, almost every day; though, of
course, we were acquainted before. I knew nothing about it… and
suddenly it dawned upon me, and I began to notice things with
surprise. You know, two months ago, that modest, charming,
excellent young man, Ilyitch Perhotin, who's in the service here,
began to be a regular visitor at the house. You met him here ever
so many times yourself. And he is an excellent, earnest young man,
isn't he? He comes once every three days, not every day (though I
should be glad to see him every day), and always so well dressed.
Altogether, I love young people, Alyosha, talented, modest, like
you, and he has almost the mind of a statesman, he talks so
charmingly, and I shall certainly, certainly try and get promotion
for him. He is a future diplomat. On that awful day he almost saved
me from death by coming in the night. And your friend Rakitin comes
in such boots, and always stretches them out on the carpet… . He
began hinting at his feelings, in fact, and one day, as he was
going, he squeezed my hand terribly hard. My foot began to swell
directly after he pressed my hand like that. He had met Pyotr
Ilyitch here before, and would you believe it, he is always gibing
at him, growling at him, for some reason. I simply looked at the
way they went on together and laughed inwardly. So I was sitting
here alone- no, I was laid up then. Well, I was lying here alone
and suddenly Rakitin comes in, and only fancy! brought me some
verses of his own composition- a short poem, on my bad foot: that
is, he described my foot in a poem. Wait a minute- how did it
go?

A captivating little foot.

It began somehow like that. I can never remember poetry. I've
got it here. I'll show it to you later. But it's a charming thing-
charming; and, you know, it's not only about the foot, it had a
good moral, too, a charming idea, only I've forgotten it; in fact,
it was just the thing for an album. So, of course, I thanked him,
and he was evidently flattered. I'd hardly had time to thank him
when in comes Pyotr Ilyitch, and Rakitin suddenly looked as black
as night. I could see that Pyotr Ilyitch was in the way, for
Rakitin certainly wanted to say something after giving me the
verses. I had a presentiment of it; but Pyotr Ilyitch came in. I
showed Pyotr Ilyitch the verses and didn't say who was the author.
But I am convinced that he guessed, though he won't own it to this
day, and declares he had no idea. But he says that on purpose.
Pyotr Ilyitch began to laugh at once, and fell to criticising it.
'Wretched doggerel,' he said they were, 'some divinity student must
have written them,' and with such vehemence, such vehemence! Then,
instead of laughing, your friend flew into a rage. 'Good gracious!'
I thought, 'they'll fly at each other.' 'It was I who wrote them,'
said he. 'I wrote them as a joke,' he said, 'for I think it
degrading to write verses… . But they are good poetry. They want to
put a monument to your Pushkin for writing about women's feet,
while I wrote with a moral purpose, and you,' said he, 'are an
advocate of serfdom. You've no humane ideas,' said he. 'You have no
modern enlightened feelings, you are uninfluenced by progress, you
are a mere official,' he said, 'and you take bribes.' Then I began
screaming and imploring them. And, you know, Pyotr Ilyitch is
anything but a coward. He at once took up the most gentlemanly
tone, looked at him sarcastically, listened, and apologised. 'I'd
no idea,' said he. 'I shouldn't have said it, if I had known. I
should have praised it. Poets are all so irritable,' he said. In
short, he laughed at him under cover of the most gentlemanly tone.
He explained to me afterwards that it was all sarcastic. I thought
he was in earnest. Only as I lay there, just as before you now, I
thought, 'Would it, or would it not, be the proper thing for me to
turn Rakitin out for shouting so rudely at a visitor in my house?'
And, would you believe it, I lay here, shut my eyes, and wondered,
would it be the proper thing or not. I kept worrying and worrying,
and my heart began to beat, and I couldn't make up my mind whether
to make an outcry or not. One voice seemed to be telling me,
'Speak,' and the other 'No, don't speak.' And no sooner had the
second voice said that than I cried out, and fainted. Of course,
there was a fuss. I got up suddenly and said to Rakitin, 'It's
painful for me to say it, but I don't wish to see you in my house
again.' So I turned him out. Ah! Alexey Fyodorovitch, I know myself
I did wrong. I was putting it on. I wasn't angry with him at all,
really; but I suddenly fancied- that was what did it- that it would
be such a fine scene… . And yet, believe me, it was quite natural,
for I really shed tears and cried for several days afterwards, and
then suddenly, one afternoon, I forgot all about it. So it's a
fortnight since he's been here, and I kept wondering whether he
would come again. I wondered even yesterday, then suddenly last
night came this Gossip. I read it and gasped. Who could have
written it? He must have written it. He went home, sat down, wrote
it on the spot, sent it, and they put it in. It was a fortnight
ago, you see. But, Alyosha, it's awful how I keep talking and don't
say what I want to say. the words come of themselves!"

"It's very important for me to be in time to see my brother
to-day," Alyosha faltered.

"To be sure, to be sure! You bring it all back to me. Listen,
what is an aberration?"

"What aberration?" asked Alyosha, wondering.

"In the legal sense. An aberration in which everything is
pardonable. Whatever you do, you will be acquitted at once."

"What do you mean?"
