"I will tell you; that's perhaps why I asked you to come, for I
don't know now why I did ask you to come. Well, Ivan Fyodorovitch
has been to see me twice, since he came back from Moscow. First
time he came as a friend to call on me, and the second time Katya
was here and he came because he heard she was here. I didn't, of
course, expect him to come often, knowing what a lot he has to do
as it is, vous comprenez, cette affaire et la mort terrible de
votre papa. (You know, this affair and your father's terrible
death.) But I suddenly heard he'd been here again, not to see me
but to see Lise. That's six days ago now. He came, stayed five
minutes, and went away. And I didn't hear of it till three days
afterwards, from Glafira, so it was a great shock to me. I sent for
Lise directly. She laughed. 'He thought you were asleep,' she said,
'and came in to me to ask after your health.' Of course, that's how
it happened. But Lise, Lise, mercy on us, how she distresses me!
Would you believe it, one night, four days ago, just after you saw
her last time, and had gone away, she suddenly had a fit,
screaming, shrieking, hysterics! Why is it I never have hysterics?
Then, next day another fit, and the same thing on the third, and
yesterday too, and then yesterday that aberration. She suddenly
screamed out, 'I hate Ivan Fyodorovitch. I insist on your never
letting him come to the house again.' I was struck dumb at these
amazing words, and answered, 'On what grounds could I refuse to see
such an excellent young man, a young man of such learning too, and
so unfortunate?'- for all this business is a misfortune, isn't it?'
She suddenly burst out laughing at my words, and so rudely, you
know. Well, I was pleased; I thought I had amused her and the fits
would pass off, especially as I wanted to refuse to see Ivan
Fyodorovitch anyway on account of his strange visits without my
knowledge, and meant to ask him for an explanation. But early this
morning Lise waked up and flew into a passion with Yulia and, would
you believe it, slapped her in the face. That's monstrous; I am
always polite to my servants. And an hour later she was hugging
Yulia's feet and kissing them. She sent a message to me that she
wasn't coming to me at all, and would never come and see me again,
and when I dragged myself down to her, she rushed to kiss me,
crying, and as she kissed me, she pushed me out of the room without
saying a word, so I couldn't find out what was the matter. Now,
dear Alexey Fyodorovitch, I rest all my hopes on you, and, of
course, my whole life is in your hands. I simply beg you to go to
Lise and find out everything from her, as you alone can, and come
back and tell me- me, her mother, for you understand it will be the
death of me, simply the death of me, if this goes on, or else I
shall run away. I can stand no more. I have patience; but I may
lose patience, and then… then something awful will happen. Ah, dear
me! At last, Pyotr Ilyitch!" cried Madame Hohlakov, beaming all
over as she saw Perhotin enter the room. "You are late, you are
late! Well, sit down, speak, put us out of suspense. What does the
counsel say. Where are you off to, Alexey Fyodorovitch?"

"To Lise."

"Oh, yes. You won't forget, you won't forget what I asked you?
It's a question of life and death!

"Of course, I won't forget, if I can… but I am so late,"
muttered Alyosha, beating a hasty retreat.

"No, be sure, be sure to come in; don't say 'If you can.' I
shall die if you don't," Madame Hohlakov called after him, but
Alyosha had already left the room.




