Dmitri frowned painfully, and looked with unutterable contempt
at his father.

"I thought… I thought," he said. in a soft and, as it were,
controlled voice, "that I was coming to my native place with the
angel of my heart, my betrothed, to cherish his old age, and I find
nothing but a depraved profligate, a despicable clown!"

"A duel!" yelled the old wretch again, breathless and
spluttering at each syllable. "And you, Pyotr Alexandrovitch
Miusov, let me tell you that there has never been in all your
family a loftier, and more honest- you hear- more honest woman than
this 'creature,' as you have dared to call her! And you, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch, have abandoned your betrothed for that 'creature,' so
you must yourself have thought that your betrothed couldn't hold a
candle to her. That's the woman called a "creature"

"Shameful!" broke from Father Iosif.

"Shameful and disgraceful!" Kalganov, flushing crimson cried in
a boyish voice, trembling with emotion. He had been silent till
that moment.

"Why is such a man alive?" Dmitri, beside himself with rage,
growled in a hollow voice, hunching up his shoulders till he looked
almost deformed. "Tell me, can he be allowed to go on defiling the
earth?" He looked round at everyone and pointed at the old man. He
spoke evenly and deliberately.

"Listen, listen, monks, to the parricide!" cried Fyodor
Pavlovitch, rushing up to Father Iosif. "That's the answer to your
'shameful!' What is shameful? That 'creature,' that 'woman of loose
behaviour' is perhaps holier than you are yourselves, you monks who
are seeking salvation! She fell perhaps in her youth, ruined by her
environment. But she loved much, and Christ himself forgave the
woman 'who loved much.'"

"It was not for such love Christ forgave her," broke impatiently
from the gentle Father Iosif.

"Yes, it was for such, monks, it was! You save your souls here,
eating cabbage, and think you are the righteous. You eat a gudgeon
a day, and you think you bribe God with gudgeon."

"This is unendurable!" was heard on all sides in the cell.

But this unseemly scene was cut short in a most unexpected way.
Father Zossima Father Zossima rose suddenly from his seat. Almost
distracted with anxiety for the elder and everyone else, Alyosha
succeeded, however, in supporting him by the arm. Father Zossima
moved towards Dmitri and reaching him sank on his knees before him.
Alyosha thought that he had fallen from weakness, but this was not
so. The elder distinctly and deliberately bowed down at Dmitri's
feet till his forehead touched the floor. Alyosha was so astounded
that he failed to assist him when he got up again. There was a
faint smile on his lips.
