
"In the ordinary occasions of life," he said in the same
complacent and sententious tone in which he had taunted Grigory and
argued with him about religion at Fyodor Pavlovitch's table, "in
the ordinary occasions of life, blows on the face are forbidden
nowadays by law, and people have given them up, but in exceptional
occasions of life people still fly to blows, not only among us but
all over the world, be it even the fullest republic of France, just
as in the time of Adam and Eve, and they never will leave off, but
you, even in an exceptional case, did not dare."

"What are you learning French words for?" Ivan nodded towards
the exercise-book lying on the table.

"Why shouldn't I learn them so as to improve my education,
supposing that I may myself chance to go some day to those happy
parts of Europe?"

"Listen, monster." Ivan's eyes flashed and he trembled all over.
"I am not afraid of your accusations; you can say what you like
about me, and if I don't beat you to death, it's simply because I
suspect you of that crime and I'll drag you to justice. I'll unmask
you."

"To my thinking, you'd better keep quiet, for what can you
accuse me of, considering my absolute innocence? And who would
believe you? Only if you begin, I shall tell everything, too, for I
must defend myself."

"Do you think I am afraid of you now?"

"If the court doesn't believe all I've said to you just now, the
public will, and you will be ashamed."

"That's as much as to say, 'It's always worth while speaking to
a sensible man,' eh?" snarled Ivan.

"You hit the mark, indeed. And you'd better be sensible."

Ivan got up, shaking all over with indignation, put on his coat,
and without replying further to Smerdyakov, without even looking at
him, walked quickly out of the cottage. The cool evening air
refreshed him. There was a bright moon in the sky. A nightmare of
ideas and sensations filled his soul. "Shall I go at once and give
information against Smerdyakov? But what information can I give? He
is not guilty, anyway. On the contrary, he'll accuse me. And in
fact, why did I set off for Tchermashnya then? What for? What for?"
Ivan asked himself. "Yes, of course, I was expecting something and
he is right… " And he remembered for the hundredth time how, on the
last night in his father's house, he had listened on the stairs.
But he remembered it now with such anguish that he stood still on
the spot as though he had been stabbed. "Yes, I expected it then,
that's true! I wanted the murder, I did want the murder! Did I want
the murder? Did I want it? I must kill Smerdyakov! If I don't dare
kill Smerdyakov now, life is not worth living!"

