


Chapter

8
The Third and Last Interview with Smerdyakov


WHEN he was half-way there, the keen dry wind that had been
blowing early that morning rose again, and a fine dry snow began
falling thickly. It did not lie on the ground, but was whirled
about by the wind, and soon there was a regular snowstorm. There
were scarcely any lamp-posts in the part of the town where
Smerdyakov lived. Ivan strode alone in the darkness, unconscious of
the storm, instinctively picking out his way. His head ached and
there was a painful throbbing in his temples. He felt that his
hands were twitching convulsively. Not far from Marya
Kondratyevna's cottage, Ivan suddenly came upon a solitary drunken
little peasant. He was wearing a coarse and patched coat, and was
walking in zigzags, grumbling and swearing to himself. Then
suddenly he would begin singing in a husky drunken voice:

Ach, Vanka's gone to Petersburg;

I won't wait till he comes back.

But he broke off every time at the second line and began
swearing again; then he would begin the same song again. Ivan felt
an intense hatred for him before he had thought about him at all.
Suddenly he realised his presence and felt an irresistible impulse
to knock him down. At that moment they met, and the peasant with a
violent lurch fell full tilt against Ivan, who pushed him back
furiously. The peasant went flying backwards and fell like a log on
the frozen ground. He uttered one plaintive "O- oh!" and then was
silent. Ivan stepped up to him. He was lying on his back, without
movement or consciousness. "He will be frozen," thought Ivan, and
he went on his way to Smerdyakov's.

In the passage, Marya Kondratyevna, who ran out to open the door
with a candle in her hand, whispered that Smerdyakov was very ill;
"It's not that he's laid up, but he seems not himself, and he even
told us to take the tea away; he wouldn't have any."

"Why, does he make a row?" asked Ivan coarsely.

"Oh dear no, quite the contrary, he's very quiet. Only please
don't talk to him too long," Marya Kondratyevna begged him. Ivan
opened the door and stepped into the room.
