"What more is there to tell! I lay there and I thought I heard
the master shout. And before that Grigory Vassilyevitch had
suddenly got up and came out, and he suddenly gave a scream, and
then all was silence and darkness. I lay there waiting, my heart
beating; I couldn't bear it. I got up at last, went out. I saw the
window open on the left into the garden, and I stepped to the left
to listen whether he was sitting there alive, and I heard the
master moving about, sighing, so I knew he was alive. 'Ech!' I
thought. I went to the window and shouted to the master, 'It's I.'
And he shouted to me, 'He's been, he's been; he's run away.' He
meant Dmitri Fyodorovitch had been. 'He's killed Grigory! "Where?'
I whispered. 'There, in the corner,' he pointed. He was whispering,
too. 'Wait a bit," I said. I went to the corner of the garden to
look, and there I came upon Grigory Vassilyevitch lying by the
wall, covered with blood, senseless. So it's true that Dmitri
Fyodorovitch has been here, was the thought that came into my head,
and I determined on the spot to make an end of it, as Grigory
Vassilyevitch, even if he were alive, would see nothing of it, as
he lay there senseless. The only risk was that Marfa Ignatyevna
might wake up. I felt that at the moment, but the longing to get it
done came over me, till I could scarcely breathe. I went back to
the window to the master and said, 'She's here, she's come;
Agrafena Alexandrovna has come, wants to be let in.' And he started
like a baby. 'Where is she?' he fairly gasped, but couldn't believe
it. 'She's standing there,' said I. 'Open.' He looked out of the
window at me, half believing and half distrustful, but afraid to
open. 'Why, he is afraid of me now,' I thought. And it was funny. I
bethought me to knock on the window-frame those taps we'd agreed
upon as a signal that Grushenka had come, in his presence, before
his eyes. He didn't seem to believe my word, but as soon as he
heard the taps, he ran at once to open the door. He opened it. I
would have gone in, but he stood in the way to prevent me passing.
'Where is she? Where is she?' He looked at me, all of a tremble.
'Well,' thought I, 'if he's so frightened of me as all that, it's a
bad lookout!' And my legs went weak with fright that he wouldn't
let me in or would call out, or Marfa Ignatyevna would run up, or
something else might happen. I don't remember now, but I must have
stood pale, facing him. I whispered to him, 'Why, she's there,
there, under the window; how is it you don't see her?' I said.
'Bring her then, bring her.' 'She's afraid,' said I; 'she was
frightened at the noise, she's hidden in the bushes; go and call to
her yourself from the study.' He ran to the window, put the candle
in the window. 'Grushenka,' he cried, 'Grushenka, are you here?'
Though he cried that, he didn't want to lean out of the window, he
didn't want to move away from me, for he was panic-stricken; he was
so frightened he didn't dare to turn his back on me. 'Why, here she
is,' said I. I went up to the window and leaned right out of it.
'Here she is; she's in the bush, laughing at you, don't you see
her?' He suddenly believed it; he was all of a shake- he was
awfully crazy about her- and he leaned right out of the window. I
snatched up that iron paper-weight from his table; do you remember,
weighing about three pounds? I swung it and hit him on the top of
the skull with the corner of it. He didn't even cry out. He only
sank down suddenly, and I hit him again and a third time. And the
third time I knew I'd broken his skull. He suddenly rolled on his
back, face upwards, covered with blood. I looked round. There was
no blood on me, not a spot. I wiped the paper-weight, put it back,
went up to the ikons, took the money out of the envelope, and flung
the envelope on the floor and the pink ribbon beside it. I went out
into the garden all of a tremble, straight to the apple-tree with a
hollow in it- you know that hollow. I'd marked it long before and
put a rag and a piece of paper ready in it. I wrapped all the notes
in the rag and stuffed it deep down in the hole. And there it
stayed for over a fortnight. I took it out later, when I came out
of the hospital. I went back to my bed, lay down and thought, 'If
Grigory Vassilyevitch has been killed outright it may be a bad job
for me, but if he is not killed and recovers, it will be
first-rate, for then he'll bear witness that Dmitri Fyodorovitch
has been here, and so he must have killed him and taken the money.'
Then I began groaning with suspense and impatience, so as to wake
Marfa Ignatyevna as soon as possible. At last she got up and she
rushed to me, but when she saw Grigory Vassilyevitch was not there,
she ran out, and I heard her scream in the garden. And that set it
all going and set my mind at rest."

He stopped. Ivan had listened all the time in dead silence
without stirring or taking his eyes off him. As he told his story
Smerdyakov glanced at him from time to time, but for the most part
kept his eyes averted. When he had finished he was evidently
agitated and was breathing hard. The perspiration stood out on his
face. But it was impossible to tell whether it was remorse he was
feeling, or what.

"Stay," cried Ivan pondering. "What about the door? If he only
opened the door to you, how could Grigory have seen it open before?
For Grigory saw it before you went."

It was remarkable that Ivan spoke quite amicably, in a different
tone, not angry as before, so if anyone had opened the door at that
moment and peeped in at them, he would certainly have concluded
that they were talking peaceably about some ordinary, though
interesting, subject.

"As for that door and having seen it open, that's only his
fancy," said Smerdyakov, with a wry smile. "He is not a man, I
assure you, but an obstinate mule. He didn't see it, but fancied he
had seen it, and there's no shaking him. It's just our luck he took
that notion into his head, for they can't fail to convict Dmitri
Fyodorovitch after that."

"Listen… " said Ivan, beginning to seem bewildered again and
making an effort to grasp something. "Listen. There are a lot of
questions I want to ask you, but I forget them… I keep forgetting
and getting mixed up. Yes. Tell me this at least, why did you open
the envelope and leave it there on the floor? Why didn't you simply
carry off the envelope?… When you were telling me, I thought you
spoke about it as though it were the right thing to do… but why, I
can't understand… "

"I did that for a good reason. For if a man had known all about
it, as I did for instance, if he'd seen those notes before, and
perhaps had put them in that envelope himself, and had seen the
envelope sealed up and addressed, with his own eyes, if such a man
had done the murder, what should have made him tear open the
envelope afterwards, especially in such desperate haste, since he'd
know for certain the notes must be in the envelope? No, if the
robber had been someone like me, he'd simply have put the envelope
straight in his pocket and got away with it as fast as he could.
But it'd be quite different with Dmitri Fyodorovitch. He only knew
about the envelope by hearsay; he had never seen it, and if he'd
found it, for instance, under the mattress, he'd have torn it open
as quickly as possible to make sure the notes were in it. And he'd
have thrown the envelope down, without having time to think that it
would be evidence against him. Because he was not an habitual thief
and had never directly stolen anything before, for he is a
gentleman born, and if he did bring himself to steal, it would not
be regular stealing, but simply taking what was his own, for he'd
told the whole town he meant to before, and had even bragged aloud
before everyone that he'd go and take his property from Fyodor
Pavlovitch. I didn't say that openly to the prosecutor when I was
being examined, but quite the contrary, I brought him to it by a
hint, as though I didn't see it myself, and as though he'd thought
of it himself and I hadn't prompted him; so that Mr. Prosecutor's
mouth positively watered at my suggestion."

"But can you possibly have thought of all that on the spot?"
cried Ivan, overcome with astonishment. He looked at Smerdyakov
again with alarm.

"Mercy on us! Could anyone think of it all in such a desperate
hurry? It was all thought out beforehand."

"Well… well, it was the devil helped you!" Ivan cried again.
"No, you are not a fool, you are far cleverer than I thought… "

He got up, obviously intending to walk across the room. He was
in terrible distress. But as the table blocked his way, and there
was hardly room to pass between the table and the wall, he only
turned round where he stood and sat down again. Perhaps the
impossibility of moving irritated him, as he suddenly cried out
almost as furiously as before.
