
"You see? (And how well you expressed it!) Looking at your
father and your brother Mitya to-day you thought of a crime. Then
I'm not mistaken?"

"But wait, wait a minute," Alyosha broke in uneasily, "What has
led you to see all this? Why does it interest you? That's the first
question."

"Two questions, disconnected, but natural. I'll deal with them
separately. What led me to see it? I shouldn't have seen it, if I
hadn't suddenly understood your brother Dmitri, seen right into the
very heart of him all at once. I caught the whole man from one
trait. These very honest but passionate people have a line which
mustn't be crossed. If it were, he'd run at your father with a
knife. But your father's a drunken and abandoned old sinner, who
can never draw the line- if they both themselves go, they'll both
come to grief."

"No, Misha, no. If that's all, you've reassured me. It won't
come to that."

"But why are you trembling? Let me tell you; he may be honest,
our Mitya (he is stupid, but honest), but he's- a sensualist.
That's the very definition and inner essence of him. It's your
father has handed him on his low sensuality. Do you know, I simply
wonder at you, Alyosha, how you can have kept your purity. You're a
Karamazov too, you know! In your family sensuality is carried to a
disease. But now, these three sensualists are watching one another,
with their knives in their belts. The three of them are knocking
their heads together, and you may be the fourth."

"You are mistaken about that woman. Dmitri despises her," said
Alyosha, with a sort of shudder.

"Grushenka? No, brother, he doesn't despise her. Since he has
openly abandoned his betrothed for her, he doesn't despise her.
There's something here, my dear boy, that you don't understand yet.
A man will fall in love with some beauty, with a woman's body, or
even with a part of a woman's body (a sensualist can understand
that), and he'll abandon his own children for her, sell his father
and mother, and his country, Russia, too. If he's honest, he'll
steal; if he's humane, he'll murder; if he's faithful, he'll
deceive. Pushkin, the poet of women's feet, sung of their feet in
his verse. Others don't sing their praises, but they can't look at
their feet without a thrill- and it's not only their feet.
Contempt's no help here, brother, even if he did despise Grushenka.
He does, but he can't tear himself away."

"I understand that," Alyosha jerked out suddenly.

"Really? Well, I dare say you do understand, since you blurt it
out at the first word," said Rakitin, malignantly. "That escaped
you unawares, and the confession's the more precious. So it's a
familiar subject; you've thought about it already, about
sensuality, I mean! Oh, you virgin soul! You're a quiet one,
Alyosha, you're a saint, I know, but the devil only knows what
you've thought about, and what you know already! You are pure, but
you've been down into the depths… . I've been watching you a long
time. You're a Karamazov yourself; you're a thorough Karamazov- no
doubt birth and selection have something to answer for. You're a
sensualist from your father, a crazy saint from your mother. Why do
you tremble? Is it true, then? Do you know, Grushenka has been
begging me to bring you along. 'I'll pull off his cassock,' she
says. You can't think how she keeps begging me to bring you. I
wondered why she took such an interest in you. Do you know, she's
an extraordinary woman, too!"

"Thank her and say I'm not coming," said Alyosha, with a
strained smile. "Finish what you were saying, Misha. I'll tell you.
my idea after."

