


Chapter

3
The Medical Experts and a Pound of Nuts


THE evidence of the medical experts, too, was of little use to
the prisoner. And it appeared later that Fetyukovitch had not
reckoned much upon it. The medical line of defence had only been
taken up through the insistence of Katerina Ivanovna, who had sent
for a celebrated doctor from Moscow on purpose. The case for the
defence could, of course, lose nothing by it and might, with luck,
gain something from it. There was, however, an element of comedy
about it, through the difference of opinion of the doctors. The
medical experts were the famous doctor from Moscow, our doctor,
Herzenstube, and the young doctor, Varvinsky. The two latter
appeared also as witnesses for the prosecution.

The first to be called in the capacity of expert was Doctor
Herzenstube. He was a grey and bald old man of seventy, of middle
height and sturdy build. He was much esteemed and respected by
everyone in the town. He was a conscientious doctor and an
excellent and pious man, a Hernguter or Moravian brother, I am not
quite sure which. He had been living amongst us for many years and
behaved with wonderful dignity. He was a kind-hearted and humane
man. He treated the sick poor and peasants for nothing, visited
them in their slums and huts, and left money for medicine, but he
was as obstinate as a mule. If once he had taken an idea into his
head, there was no shaking it. Almost everyone in the town was
aware, by the way, that the famous doctor had, within the first two
or three days of his presence among us, uttered some extremely
offensive allusions to Doctor Herzenstube's qualifications. Though
the Moscow doctor asked twenty-five roubles for a visit, several
people in the town were glad to take advantage of his arrival, and
rushed to consult him regardless of expense. All these had, of
course, been previously patients of Doctor Herzenstube, and the
celebrated doctor had criticised his treatment with extreme
harshness. Finally, he had asked the patients as soon as he saw
them, "Well, who has been cramming you with nostrums? Herzenstube?
He he!" Doctor Herzenstube, of course, heard all this, and now all
the three doctors made their appearance, one after another, to be
examined.

Doctor Herzenstube roundly declared that the abnormality of the
prisoner's mental faculties was self-evident. Then giving his
grounds for this opinion, which I omit here, he added that the
abnormality was not only evident in many of the prisoner's actions
in the past, but was apparent even now at this very moment. When he
was asked to explain how it was apparent now at this moment, the
old doctor, with simple-hearted directness, pointed out that the
prisoner had "an extraordinary air, remarkable in the
circumstances"; that he had "marched in like a soldier, looking
straight before him, though it would have been more natural for him
to look to the left where, among the public, the ladies were
sitting, seeing that he was a great admirer of the fair sex and
must be thinking much of what the ladies are saying of him now,"
the old man concluded in his peculiar language.

I must add that he spoke Russian readily, but every phrase was
formed in German style, which did not, however, trouble him, for it
had always been a weakness of his to believe that he spoke Russian
perfectly, better indeed than Russians. And he was very fond of
using Russian proverbs, always declaring that the Russian proverbs
were the best and most expressive sayings in the whole world. I may
remark, too, that in conversation, through absent-mindedness he
often forgot the most ordinary words, which sometimes went out of
his head, though he knew them perfectly. The same thing happened,
though, when he spoke German, and at such times he always waved his
hand before his face as though trying to catch the lost word, and
no one could induce him to go on speaking till he had found the
missing word. His remark that the prisoner ought to have looked at
the ladies on entering roused a whisper of amusement in the
audience. All our ladies were very fond of our old doctor; they
knew, too, that having been all his life a bachelor and a religious
man of exemplary conduct, he looked upon women as lofty creatures.
And so his unexpected observation struck everyone as very
queer.

The Moscow doctor, being questioned in his turn, definitely and
emphatically repeated that he considered the prisoner's mental
condition abnormal in the highest degree. He talked at length and
with erudition of "aberration" and "mania," and argued that, from
all the facts collected, the prisoner had undoubtedly been in a
condition of aberration for several days before his arrest, and, if
the crime had been committed by him, it must, even if he were
conscious of it, have been almost involuntary, as he had not the
power to control the morbid impulse that possessed him.

But apart from temporary aberration, the doctor diagnosed mania,
which promised, in his words, to lead to complete insanity in the
future. (It must be noted that I report this in my own words, the
doctor made use of very learned and professional language.) "All
his actions are in contravention of common sense and logic," he
continued. "Not to refer to what I have not seen, that is, the
crime itself and the whole catastrophe, the day before yesterday,
while he was talking to me, he had an unaccountably fixed look in
his eye. He laughed unexpectedly when there was nothing to laugh
at. He showed continual and inexplicable irritability, using
strange words, 'Bernard!' 'Ethics!' and others equally
inappropriate." But the doctor detected mania, above all, in the
fact that the prisoner could not even speak of the three thousand
roubles, of which he considered himself to have been cheated,
without extraordinary irritation, though he could speak
comparatively lightly of other misfortunes and grievances.
According to all accounts, he had even in the past, whenever the
subject of the three thousand roubles was touched on, flown into a
perfect frenzy, and yet he was reported to be a disinterested and
not grasping man.

"As to the opinion of my learned colleague," the Moscow doctor
added ironically in conclusion "that the prisoner would, entering
the court, have naturally looked at the ladies and not straight
before him, I will only say that, apart from the playfulness of
this theory, it is radically unsound. For though I fully agree that
the prisoner, on entering the court where his fate will be decided,
would not naturally look straight before him in that fixed way, and
that that may really be a sign of his abnormal mental condition, at
the same time I maintain that he would naturally not look to the
left at the ladies, but, on the contrary, to the right to find his
legal adviser, on whose help all his hopes rest and on whose
defence all his future depends." The doctor expressed his opinion
positively and emphatically.
