
But the unexpected pronouncement of Doctor Varvinsky gave the
last touch of comedy to the difference of opinion between the
experts. In his opinion the prisoner was now, and had been all
along, in a perfectly normal condition, and, although he certainly
must have been in a nervous and exceedingly excited state before
his arrest, this might have been due to several perfectly obvious
causes, jealousy, anger, continual drunkenness, and so on. But this
nervous condition would not involve the mental abberation of which
mention had just been made. As to the question whether the prisoner
should have looked to the left or to the right on entering the
court, "in his modest opinion," the prisoner would naturally look
straight before him on entering the court, as he had in fact done,
as that was where the judges, on whom his fate depended, were
sitting. So that it was just by looking straight before him that he
showed his perfectly normal state of mind at the present. The young
doctor concluded his "modest" testimony with some heat.

"Bravo, doctor!" cried Mitya, from his seat, "just so!"

Mitya, of course, was checked, but the young doctor's opinion
had a decisive influence on the judges and on the public, and, as
appeared afterwards, everyone agreed with him. But Doctor
Herzenstube, when called as a witness, was quite unexpectedly of
use to Mitya. As an old resident in the town, who had known the
Karamazov family for years, he furnished some facts of great value
for the prosecution, and suddenly, as though recalling something,
he added:

"But the poor young man might have had a very different life,
for he had a good heart both in childhood and after childhood, that
I know. But the Russian proverb says, 'If a man has one head, it's
good, but if another clever man comes to visit him, it would be
better still, for then there will be two heads and not only
one."'

"One head is good, but two are better," the prosecutor put in
impatiently. He knew the old man's habit of talking slowly and
deliberately, regardless of the impression he was making and of the
delay he was causing, and highly prizing his flat, dull and always
gleefully complacent German wit. The old man was fond of making
jokes.

"Oh, yes, that's what I say," he went on stubbornly. "One head
is good, but two are much better, but he did not meet another head
with wits, and his wits went. Where did they go? I've forgotten the
word." He went on, passing his hand before his eyes, "Oh, yes,
spazieren."

Promenading.

"Wandering?"

"Oh, yes, wandering, that's what I say. Well, his wits went
wandering and fell in such a deep hole that he lost himself. And
yet he was a grateful and sensitive boy. Oh, I remember him very
well, a little chap so high, left neglected by his father in the
back yard, when he ran about without boots on his feet, and his
little breeches hanging by one button."

A note of feeling and tenderness suddenly came into the honest
old man's voice. Fetyukovitch positively started, as though
scenting something, and caught at it instantly.

