"Oh, yes, I was a young man then… . I was… well, I was
forty-five then, and had only just come here. And I was so sorry
for the boy then; I asked myself why shouldn't I buy him a pound
of… a pound of what? I've forgotten what it's called. A pound of
what children are very fond of, what is it, what is it?" The doctor
began waving his hands again. "It grows on a tree and is gathered
and given to everyone… "

"Apples?"

"Oh, no, no. You have a dozen of apples, not a pound… . No,
there are a lot of them, and call little. You put them in the mouth
and crack."

"Quite so, nuts, I say so." The doctor repeated in the calmest
way as though he had been at no loss for a word. "And I bought him
a pound of nuts, for no one had ever bought the boy a pound of nuts
before. And I lifted my finger and said to him, 'Boy, Gott der
Vater.' He laughed and said, 'Gott der Vater'… 'Gott der Sohn.' He
laughed again and lisped 'Gott der Sohn.' 'Gott der heilige Geist.'
Then he laughed and said as best he could, 'Gott der heilige
Geist.' I went away, and two days after I happened to be passing,
and he shouted to me of himself, 'Uncle, Gott der Vater, Gott der
Sohn,' and he had only forgotten 'Gott der heilige Geist.' But I
reminded him of it and I felt very sorry for him again. But he was
taken away, and I did not see him again. Twenty-three years passed.
I am sitting one morning in my study, a white-haired old man, when
there walks into the room a blooming young man, whom I should never
have recognised, but he held up his finger and said, laughing,
'Gott der Vater, Gott der Sohn, and Gott der heilige Geist. I have
just arrived and have come to thank you for that pound of nuts, for
no one else ever bought me a pound of nuts; you are the only one
that ever did.' then I remembered my happy youth and the poor child
in the yard, without boots on his feet, and my heart was touched
and I said, 'You are a grateful young man, for you have remembered
all your life the pound of nuts I bought you in your childhood.'
And I embraced him and blessed him. And I shed tears. He laughed,
but he shed tears, too… for the Russian often laughs when he ought
to be weeping. But he did weep; I saw it. And now, alas!… "

"And I am weeping now, German, I am weeping now, too, you
saintly man," Mitya cried suddenly.

In any case the anecdote made a certain favourable impression on
the public. But the chief sensation in Mitya's favour was created
by the evidence of Katerina Ivanovna, which I will describe
directly. Indeed, when the witnesses a decharge, that is, called
the defence, began giving evidence, fortune seemed all at once
markedly more favourable to Mitya, and what was particularly
striking, this was a surprise even to the counsel for the defence.
But before Katerina Ivanovna was called, Alyosha was examined, and
he recalled a fact which seemed to furnish positive evidence
against one important point made by the prosecution.




