
"But it was not with his fist," cried Alyosha; "he pointed with
his fingers and pointed here, very high up… . How could I have so
completely forgotten it till this moment?"

The President asked Mitya what he had to say to the last
witness's evidence. Mitya confirmed it, saying that he had been
pointing to the fifteen hundred roubles which were on his breast,
just below the neck, and that that was, of course, the disgrace, "A
disgrace I cannot deny, the most shameful act of my whole life,"
cried Mitya. "I might have repaid it and didn't repay it. I
preferred to remain a thief in her eyes rather than give it back.
And the most shameful part of it was that I knew beforehand I
shouldn't give it back! You are right, Alyosha! Thanks,
Alyosha!"

So Alyosha's cross-examination ended. What was important and
striking about it was that one fact at least had been found, and
even though this were only one tiny bit of evidence, a mere hint at
evidence, it did go some little way towards proving that the bag
had existed and had contained fifteen hundred roubles and that the
prisoner had not been lying at the preliminary inquiry when he
alleged at Mokroe that those fifteen hundred roubles were "his
own." Alyosha was glad. With a flushed face he moved away to the
seat assigned to him. He kept repeating to himself: "How was it I
forgot? How could I have forgotten it? And what made it come back
to me now?"

Katerina Ivanovna was called to the witness-box. As she entered
something extraordinary happened in the court. The ladies clutched
their lorgnettes and opera-glasses. There was a stir among the men:
some stood up to get a better view. Everybody alleged afterwards
that Mitya had turned "white as a sheet" on her entrance. All in
black, she advanced modestly, almost timidly. It was impossible to
tell from her face that she was agitated; but there was a resolute
gleam in her dark and gloomy eyes. I may remark that many people
mentioned that she looked particularly handsome at that moment. She
spoke softly but clearly, so that she was heard all over the court.
She expressed herself with composure, or at least tried to appear
composed. The President began his examination discreetly and very
respectfully, as though afraid to touch on "certain chords," and
showing consideration for her great unhappiness. But in answer to
one of the first questions Katerina Ivanovna replied firmly that
she had been formerly betrothed to the prisoner, "until he left me
of his own accord… " she added quietly. When they asked her about
the three thousand she had entrusted to Mitya to post to her
relations, she said firmly, "I didn't give him the money simply to
send it off. I felt at the time that he was in great need of money…
. I gave him the three thousand on the understanding that he should
post it within the month if he cared to. There was no need for him
to worry himself about that debt afterwards."

I will not repeat all the questions asked her and all her
answers in detail. I will only give the substance of her
evidence.

"I was firmly convinced that he would send off that sum as soon
as he got money from his father," she went on. "I have never
doubted his disinterestedness and his honesty… his scrupulous
honesty… in money matters. He felt quite certain that he would
receive the money from his father, and spoke to me several times
about it. I knew he had a feud with his father and have always
believed that he had been unfairly treated by his father. I don't
remember any threat uttered by him against his father. He certainly
never uttered any such threat before me. If he had come to me at
that time, I should have at once relieved his anxiety about that
unlucky three thousand roubles, but he had given up coming to see
me… and I myself was put in such a position… that I could not
invite him… . And I had no right, indeed, to be exacting as to that
money, she added suddenly, and there was a ring of resolution in
her voice. "I was once indebted to him for assistance in money for
more than three thousand, and I took it, although I could not at
that time foresee that I should ever be in a position to repay my
debt."

There was a note of defiance in her voice. It was then
Fetyukovitch began his cross-examination.

"Did that take place not here, but at the beginning of your
acquaintance?" Fetyukovitch suggested cautiously, feeling his way,
instantly scenting something favourable. I must mention in
parenthesis that, though Fetyukovitch had been brought from
Petersburg partly at the instance of Katerina Ivanovna herself, he
knew nothing about the episode of the four thousand roubles given
her by Mitya, and of her "bowing to the ground to him." She
concealed this from him and said nothing about it, and that was
strange. It may be pretty certainly assumed that she herself did
not know till the very last minute whether she would speak of that
episode in the court, and waited for the inspiration of the
moment.

No, I can never forget those moments. She began telling her
story. She told everything, the whole episode that Mitya had told
Alyosha, and her bowing to the ground, and her reason. She told
about her father and her going to Mitya, and did not in one word,
in a single hint, suggest that Mitya had himself, through her
sister, proposed they should "send him Katerina Ivanovna" to fetch
the money. She generously concealed that and was not ashamed to
make it appear as though she had of her own impulse run to the
young officer, relying on something… to beg him for the money. It
was something tremendous! I turned cold and trembled as I listened.
The court was hushed, trying to catch each word. It was something
unexampled. Even from such a self-willed and contemptuously proud
girl as she was, such an extremely frank avowal, such sacrifice,
such self-immolation, seemed incredible. And for what, for whom? To
save the man who had deceived and insulted her and to help, in
however small a degree, in saving him, by creating a strong
impression in his favour. And, indeed, the figure of the young
officer who, with a respectful bow to the innocent girl, handed her
his last four thousand roubles- all he had in the world- was thrown
into a very sympathetic and attractive light, but… I had a painful
misgiving at heart! I felt that calumny might come of it later (and
it did, in fact, it did). It was repeated all over the town
afterwards with spiteful laughter that was perhaps not quite
complete- that is, in the statement that the officer had let the
young lady depart "with nothing but a respectful bow." It was
hinted that something was here omitted.

"And even if nothing had been omitted, if this were the whole
story," the most highly respected of our ladies maintained, "even
then it's very doubtful whether it was creditable for a young girl
to behave in that way, even for the sake of saving her father."

