And can Katerina Ivanovna, with her intelligence, her morbid
sensitiveness, have failed to understand that people would talk
like that? She must have understood it, yet she made up her mind to
tell everything. Of course, all these nasty little suspicions as to
the truth of her story only arose afterwards and at the first
moment all were deeply impressed by it. As for the judges and the
lawyers, they listened in reverent, almost shamefaced silence to
Katerina Ivanovna. The prosecutor did not venture upon even one
question on the subject. Fetyukovitch made a low bow to her. Oh, he
was almost triumphant! Much ground had been gained. For a man to
give his last four thousand on a generous impulse and then for the
same man to murder his father for the sake of robbing him of three
thousand- the idea seemed too incongruous. Fetyukovitch felt that
now the charge of theft, at least, was as good as disproved. "The
case" was thrown into quite a different light. There was a wave of
sympathy for Mitya. As for him… . I was told that once or twice,
while Katerina Ivanovna was giving her evidence, he jumped up from
his seat, sank back again, and hid his face in his hands. But when
she had finished, he suddenly cried in a sobbing voice:

"Katya, why have you ruined me?" and his sobs were audible all
over the court. But he instantly restrained himself, and cried
again:

"Now I am condemned!"

Then he sat rigid in his place, with his teeth clenched and his
arms across his chest. Katerina Ivanovna remained in the court and
sat down in her place. She was pale and sat with her eyes cast
down. Those who were sitting near her declared that for a long time
she shivered all over as though in a fever. Grushenka was
called.

I am approaching the sudden catastrophe which was perhaps the
final cause of Mitya's ruin. For I am convinced, so is everyone-
all the lawyers said the same afterwards- that if the episode had
not occurred, the prisoner would at least have been recommended to
mercy. But of that later. A few words first about Grushenka.

She, too, was dressed entirely in black, with her magnificent
black shawl on her shoulders. She walked to the witness-box with
her smooth, noiseless tread, with the slightly swaying gait common
in women of full figure. She looked steadily at the President,
turning her eyes neither to the right nor to the left. To my
thinking she looked very handsome at that moment, and not at all
pale, as the ladies alleged afterwards. They declared, too, that
she had a concentrated and spiteful expression. I believe that she
was simply irritated and painfully conscious of the contemptuous
and inquisitive eyes of our scandal-loving public. She was proud
and could not stand contempt. She was one of those people who flare
up, angry and eager to retaliate, at the mere suggestion of
contempt. There was an element of timidity, too, of course, and
inward shame at her own timidity, so it was not strange that her
tone kept changing. At one moment it was angry, contemptuous and
rough, and at another there was a sincere note of
self-condemnation. Sometimes she spoke as though she were taking a
desperate plunge; as though she felt, "I don't care what happens,
I'll say it… ." Apropos of her acquaintance with Fyodor Pavlovitch,
she remarked curtly, "That's all nonsense, and was it my fault that
he would pester me?" But a minute later she added, "It was all my
fault. I was laughing at them both- at the old man and at him, too-
and I brought both of them to this. It was all on account of me it
happened."

Samsonov's name came up somehow. "That's nobody's business," she
snapped at once, with a sort of insolent defiance. "He was my
benefactor; he took me when I hadn't a shoe to my foot, when my
family had turned me out." The President reminded her, though very
politely, that she must answer the questions directly, without
going off into irrelevant details. Grushenka crimsoned and her eyes
flashed.

The envelope with the notes in it she had not seen, but had only
heard from "that wicked wretch" that Fyodor Pavlovitch had an
envelope with notes for three thousand in it. "But that was all
foolishness. I was only laughing. I wouldn't have gone to him for
anything."

"To whom are you referring as 'that wicked wretch'?" inquired
the prosecutor.

"The lackey, Smerdyakov, who murdered his master and hanged
himself last night."

She was, of course, at once asked what ground she had for such a
definite accusation; but it appeared that she, too, had no grounds
for it.
