
"No, I never dreamed of thinking you a vulgar fool. You are
clever but… never mind, I was silly to smile. I understand your
getting hot about it, Misha. I guess from your warmth that you are
not indifferent to Katerina Ivanovna yourself; I've suspected that
for a long time, brother, that's why you don't like my brother
Ivan. Are you jealous of him?"

"And jealous of her money, too? Won't you add that?"

"I'll say nothing about money. I am not going to insult
you."

"I believe it, since you say so, but confound you, and your
brother Ivan with you. Don't you understand that one might very
well dislike him, apart from Katerina Ivanovna. And why the devil
should I like him? He condescends to abuse me, you know. Why
haven't I a right to abuse him?"

"I never heard of his saying anything about you, good or bad. He
doesn't speak of you at all."

"But I heard that the day before yesterday at Katerina
Ivanovna's he was abusing me for all he was worth- you see what an
interest he takes in your humble servant. And which is the jealous
one after that, brother, I can't say. He was so good as to express
the opinion that, if I don't go in for the career of an
archimandrite in the immediate future and don't become a monk, I
shall be sure to go to Petersburg and get on to some solid magazine
as a reviewer, that I shall write for the next ten years, and in
the end become the owner of the magazine, and bring it out on the
liberal and atheistic side, with a socialistic tinge, with a tiny
gloss of socialism, but keeping a sharp lookout all the time, that
is, keeping in with both sides and hoodwinking the fools. According
to your brother's account, the tinge of socialism won't hinder me
from laying by the proceeds and investing them under the guidance
of some Jew, till at the end of my career I build a great house in
Petersburg and move my publishing offices to it, and let out the
upper stories to lodgers. He has even chosen the place for it, near
the new stone bridge across the Neva, which they say is to be built
in Petersburg."

"Ah, Misha, that's just what will really happen, every word of
it," cried Alyosha, unable to restrain a good-humoured smile.

"You are pleased to be sarcastic, too, Alexey Fyodorovitch."

"No, no, I'm joking, forgive me. I've something quite different
in my mind. But, excuse me, who can have told you all this? You
can't have been at Katerina Ivanovna's yourself when he was talking
about you?"

"I wasn't there, but Dmitri Fyodorovitch was; and I heard him
tell it with my own ears; if you want to know, he didn't tell me,
but I overheard him, unintentionally, of course, for I was sitting
in Grushenka's bedroom and I couldn't go away because Dmitri
Fyodorovitch was in the next room."

