
"I asked just now what does 'father' mean, and exclaimed that it
was a great word, a precious name. But one must use words honestly,
gentlemen, and I venture to call things by their right names: such
a father as old Karamazov cannot be called a father and does not
deserve to be. Filial love for an unworthy father is an absurdity,
an impossibility. Love cannot be created from nothing: only God can
create something from nothing.

"'Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath,' the apostle
writes, from a heart glowing with love. It's not for the sake of my
client that I quote these sacred words, I mention them for all
fathers. Who has authorised me to preach to fathers? No one. But as
a man and a citizen I make my appeal- vivos voco! We are not long
on earth, we do many evil deeds and say many evil words. So let us
all catch a favourable moment when we are all together to say a
good word to each other. That's what I am doing: while I am in this
place I take advantage of my opportunity. Not for nothing is this
tribune given us by the highest authority- all Russia hears us! I
am not speaking only for the fathers here present, I cry aloud to
all fathers: 'Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath.' Yes,
let us first fulfil Christ's injunction ourselves and only then
venture to expect it of our children. Otherwise we are not fathers,
but enemies of our children, and they are not our children, but our
enemies, and we have made them our enemies ourselves. 'What measure
ye mete it shall be measured unto you again'- it's not I who say
that, it's the Gospel precept, measure to others according as they
measure to you. How can we blame children if they measure us
according to our measure?

"Not long ago a servant girl in Finland was suspected of having
secretly given birth to a child. She was watched, and a box of
which no one knew anything was found in the corner of the loft,
behind some bricks. It was opened and inside was found the body of
a new-born child which she had killed. In the same box were found
the skeletons of two other babies which, according to her own
confession, she had killed at the moment of their birth.

"Gentlemen of the jury, was she a mother to her children? She
gave birth to them, indeed; but was she a mother to them? Would
anyone venture to give her the sacred name of mother? Let us be
bold, gentlemen, let us be audacious even: it's our duty to be so
at this moment and not to be afraid of certain words and ideas like
the Moscow women in Ostrovsky's play, who are scared at the sound
of certain words. No, let us prove that the progress of the last
few years has touched even us, and let us say plainly, the father
is not merely he who begets the child, but he who begets it and
does his duty by it.

"Oh, of course, there is the other meaning, there is the other
interpretation of the word 'father,' which insists that any father,
even though he be a monster, even though he be the enemy of his
children, still remains my father simply because he begot me. But
this is, so to say, the mystical meaning which I cannot comprehend
with my intellect, but can only accept by faith, or, better to say,
on faith, like many other things which I do not understand, but
which religion bids me believe. But in that case let it be kept
outside the sphere of actual life. In the sphere of actual life,
which has, indeed, its own rights, but also lays upon us great
duties and obligations, in that sphere, if we want to be humane-
Christian, in fact- we must, or ought to, act only upon convictions
justified by reason and experience, which have been passed through
the crucible of analysis; in a word, we must act rationally, and
not as though in dream and delirium, that we may not do harm, that
we may not ill-treat and ruin a man. Then it will be real Christian
work, not only mystic, but rational and philanthropic… ."

There was violent applause at this passage from many parts of
the court, but Fetyukovitch waved his hands as though imploring
them to let him finish without interruption. The court relapsed
into silence at once. The orator went on.

"Do you suppose, gentlemen, that our children as they grow up
and begin to reason can avoid such questions? No, they cannot, and
we will not impose on them an impossible restriction. The sight of
an unworthy father involuntarily suggests tormenting questions to a
young creature, especially when he compares him with the excellent
fathers of his companions. The conventional answer to this question
is: 'He begot you, and you are his flesh and blood, and therefore
you are bound to love him.' The youth involuntarily reflects: 'But
did he love me when he begot me?' he asks, wondering more and more.
'Was it for my sake he begot me? He did not know me, not even my
sex, at that moment, at the moment of passion, perhaps, inflamed by
wine, and he has only transmitted to me a propensity to
drunkenness- that's all he's done for me… . Why am I bound to love
him simply for begetting me when he has cared nothing for me all my
life after?'

"Oh, perhaps those questions strike you as coarse and cruel, but
do not expect an impossible restraint from a young mind. 'Drive
nature out of the door and it will fly in at the window,' and,
above all, let us not be afraid of words, but decide the question
according to the dictates of reason and humanity and not of mystic
ideas. How shall it be decided? Why, like this. Let the son stand
before his father and ask him, 'Father, tell me, why must I love
you? Father, show me that I must love you,' and if that father is
able to answer him and show him good reason, we have a real,
normal, parental relation, not resting on mystical prejudice, but
on a rational, responsible and strictly humanitarian basis. But if
he does not, there's an end to the family tie. He is not a father
to him, and the son has a right to look upon him as a stranger, and
even an enemy. Our tribune, gentlemen of the jury, ought to be a
school of true and sound ideas."

(Here the orator was interrupted by irrepressible and almost
frantic applause. Of course, it was not the whole audience, but a
good half of it applauded. The fathers and mothers present
applauded. Shrieks and exclamations were heard from the gallery,
where the ladies were sitting. Handkerchiefs were waved. The
President began ringing his bell with all his might. He was
obviously irritated by the behaviour of the audience, but did not
venture to clear the court as he had threatened. Even persons of
high position, old men with stars on their breasts, sitting on
specially reserved seats behind the judges, applauded the orator
and waved their handkerchiefs. So that when the noise died down,
the President confined himself to repeating his stern threat to
clear the court, and Fetyukovitch, excited and triumphant,
continued his speech.)

"Gentlemen of the jury, you remember that awful night of which
so much has been said to-day, when the son got over the fence and
stood face to face with the enemy and persecutor who had begotten
him. I insist most emphatically it was not for money he ran to his
father's house: the charge of robbery is an absurdity, as I proved
before. And it was not to murder him he broke into the house, oh,
no! If he had had that design he would, at least, have taken the
precaution of arming himself beforehand. The brass pestle he caught
up instinctively without knowing why he did it. Granted that he
deceived his father by tapping at the window, granted that he made
his way in- I've said already that I do not for a moment believe
that legend, but let it be so, let us suppose it for a moment.
Gentlemen, I swear to you by all that's holy, if it had not been
his father, but an ordinary enemy, he would, after running through
the rooms and satisfying himself that the woman was not there, have
made off, post-haste, without doing any harm to his rival. He would
have struck him, pushed him away perhaps, nothing more, for he had
no thought and no time to spare for that. What he wanted to know
was where she was. But his father, his father! The mere sight of
the father who had hated him from his childhood, had been his
enemy, his persecutor, and now his unnatural rival, was enough! A
feeling of hatred came over him involuntarily, irresistibly,
clouding his reason. It all surged up in one moment! It was an
impulse of madness and insanity, but also an impulse of nature,
irresistibly and unconsciously (like everything in nature) avenging
the violation of its eternal laws.

