
"I sincerely deplore his absence. Perhaps at our table he might
have learnt to like us, and we him. Pray be seated, gentlemen."

He stood before the holy image, and began to say grace, aloud.
All bent their heads reverently, and Maximov clasped his hands
before him, with peculiar fervour.

It was at this moment that Fyodor Pavlovitch played his last
prank. It must be noted that he really had meant to go home, and
really had felt the impossibility of going to dine with the Father
Superior as though nothing had happened, after his disgraceful
behaviour in the elder's cell. Not that he was so very much ashamed
of himself- quite the contrary perhaps. But still he felt it would
be unseemly to go to dinner. Yet his creaking carriage had hardly
been brought to the steps of the hotel, and he had hardly got into
it, when he suddenly stopped short. He remembered his own words at
the elder's: "I always feel when I meet people that I am lower than
all, and that they all take me for a buffoon; so I say let me play
the buffoon, for you are, every one of you, stupider and lower than
I." He longed to revenge himself on everyone for his own
unseemliness. He suddenly recalled how he had once in the past been
asked, "Why do you hate so and so, so much?" And he had answered
them, with his shameless impudence, "I'll tell you. He has done me
no harm. But I played him a dirty trick, and ever since I have
hated him."

Remembering that now, he smiled quietly and malignantly,
hesitating for a moment. His eyes gleamed, and his lips positively
quivered.

"Well, since I have begun, I may as well go on," he decided. His
predominant sensation at that moment might be expressed in the
following words, "Well, there is no rehabilitating myself now. So
let me shame them for all I am worth. I will show them I don't care
what they think- that's all!"

He told the coachman to wait, while with rapid steps he returned
to the monastery and straight to the Father Superior's. He had no
clear idea what he would do, but he knew that he could not control
himself, and that a touch might drive him to the utmost limits of
obscenity, but only to obscenity, to nothing criminal, nothing for
which he could be legally punished. In the last resort, he could
always restrain himself, and had marvelled indeed at himself, on
that score, sometimes. He appeared in the Father Superior's
dining-room, at the moment when the prayer was over, and all were
moving to the table. Standing in the doorway, he scanned the
company, and laughing his prolonged, impudent, malicious chuckle,
looked them all boldly in the face. "They thought I had gone, and
here I am again," he cried to the whole room.

For one moment everyone stared at him without a word; and at
once everyone felt that something revolting, grotesque, positively
scandalous, was about to happen. Miusov passed immediately from the
most benevolent frame of mind to the most savage. All the feelings
that had subsided and died down in his heart revived instantly.

"No! this I cannot endure!" he cried. "I absolutely cannot! and…
I certainly cannot!"

The blood rushed to his head. He positively stammered; but he
was beyond thinking of style, and he seized his hat.

"What is it he cannot?" cried Fyodor Pavlovitch, "that he
absolutely cannot and certainly cannot? Your reverence, am I to
come in or not? Will you receive me as your guest?"

