"You are welcome with all my heart," answered the Superior.
"Gentlemen!" he added, "I venture to beg you most earnestly to lay
aside your dissensions, and to be united in love and family
harmony- with prayer to the Lord at our humble table."

"No, no, it is impossible!" cried Miusov, beside himself.

"Well, if it is impossible for Pyotr Alexandrovitch, it is
impossible for me, and I won't stop. That is why I came. I will
keep with Pyotr Alexandrovitch everywhere now. If you will go away,
Pyotr Alexandrovitch, I will go away too, if you remain, I will
remain. You stung him by what you said about family harmony, Father
Superior, he does not admit he is my relation. That's right, isn't
it, von Sohn? Here's von Sohn. How are you, von Sohn?"

"Do you mean me?" muttered Maximov, puzzled.

"Of course I mean you," cried Fyodor Pavlovitch. "Who else? The
Father Superior could not be von Sohn."

"But I am not von Sohn either. I am Maximov."

"No, you are von Sohn. Your reverence, do you know who von Sohn
was? It was a famous murder case. He was killed in a house of
harlotry- I believe that is what such places are called among you-
he was killed and robbed, and in spite of his venerable age, he was
nailed up in a box and sent from Petersburg to Moscow in the
luggage van, and while they were nailing him up, the harlots sang
songs and played the harp, that is to say, the piano. So this is
that very von Solin. He has risen from the dead, hasn't he, von
Sohn?"

"What is happening? What's this?" voices were heard in the group
of monks.

"Let us go," cried Miusov, addressing Kalganov.

"No, excuse me," Fyodor Pavlovitch broke in shrilly, taking
another step into the room. "Allow me to finish. There in the cell
you blamed me for behaving disrespectfully just because I spoke of
eating gudgeon, Pyotr Alexandrovitch. Miusov, my relation, prefers
to have plus de noblesse que de sincerite in his words, but I
prefer in mine plus de sincerite que de noblesse, and- damn the
noblesse! That's right, isn't it, von Sohn? Allow me, Father
Superior, though I am a buffoon and play the buffoon, yet I am the
soul of honour, and I want to speak my mind. Yes, I am the soul of
honour, while in Pyotr Alexandrovitch there is wounded vanity and
nothing else. I came here perhaps to have a look and speak my mind.
My son, Alexey, is here, being saved. I am his father; I care for
his welfare, and it is my duty to care. While I've been playing the
fool, I have been listening and having a look on the sly; and now I
want to give you the last act of the performance. You know how
things are with us? As a thing falls, so it lies. As a thing once
has fallen, so it must lie for ever. Not a bit of it! I want to get
up again. Holy Father, I am indignant with you. Confession is a
great sacrament, before which I am ready to bow down reverently;
but there in the cell, they all kneel down and confess aloud. Can
it be right to confess aloud? It was ordained by the holy Fathers
to confess in secret: then only your confession will be a mystery,
and so it was of old. But how can I explain to him before everyone
that I did this and that… well, you understand what- sometimes it
would not be proper to talk about it- so it is really a scandal!
No, Fathers, one might be carried along with you to the
Flagellants, I dare say… . at the first opportunity I shall write
to the Synod, and I shall take my son, Alexey, home."

We must note here that Fyodor Pavlovitch knew where to look for
the weak spot. There had been at one time malicious rumours which
had even reached the Archbishop (not only regarding our monastery,
but in others where the institution of elders existed) that too
much respect was paid to the elders, even to the detriment of the
authority of the Superior, that the elders abused the sacrament of
confession and so on and so on- absurd charges which had died away
of themselves everywhere. But the spirit of folly, which had caught
up Fyodor Pavlovitch and was bearing him on the current of his own
nerves into lower and lower depths of ignominy, prompted him with
this old slander. Fyodor Pavlovitch did not understand a word of
it, and he could not even put it sensibly, for on this occasion no
one had been kneeling and confessing aloud in the elder's cell, so
that he could not have seen anything of the kind. He was only
speaking from confused memory of old slanders. But as soon as he
had uttered his foolish tirade, he felt he had been talking absurd
nonsense, and at once longed to prove to his audience, and above
all to himself, that he had not been talking nonsense. And, though
he knew perfectly well that with each word he would be adding more
and more absurdity, he could not restrain himself, and plunged
forward blindly.
