The boys, seeing that the father would not leave the coffin and
that it was time to carry it out, stood round it in a close circle
and began to lift it up.

"I don't want him to be buried in the churchyard," Snegiryov
wailed suddenly; "I'll bury him by the stone, by our stone! Ilusha
told me to. I won't let him be carried out!" He had been saying for
the last three days that he would bury him by the stone, but
Alyosha, Krassotkin, the landlady, her sister and all the boys
interfered.

"What an idea, bury him by an unholy stone, as though he had
hanged himself!" the old landlady said sternly. "There in the
churchyard the ground has been crossed. He'll be prayed for there.
One can hear the singing in church and the deacon reads so plainly
and verbally that it will reach him every time just as though it
were read over his grave."

At last the captain made a gesture of despair as though to say,
"Take him where you will." The boys raised the coffin, but as they
passed the mother, they stopped for a moment and lowered it that
she might say good-bye to Ilusha. But on seeing that precious
little face, which for the last three days she had only looked at
from a distance, she trembled all over and her grey head began
twitching spasmodically over the coffin.

"Mother, make the sign of the cross over him, give him your
blessing, kiss him," Nina cried to her. But her head still twitched
like an automaton and with a face contorted with bitter grief she
began, without a word, beating her breast with her fist. They
carried the coffin past her. Nina pressed her lips to her brother's
for the last time as they bore the coffin by her. As Alyosha went
out of the house he begged the landlady to look after those who
were left behind, but she interrupted him before he had
finished.

"To be sure, I'll stay with them, we are Christians, too." The
old woman wept as she said it.

They had not far to carry the coffin to the church, not more
than three hundred paces. It was a still, clear day, with a slight
frost. The church bells were still ringing. Snegiryov ran fussing
and distracted after the coffin, in his short old summer overcoat,
with his head bare and his soft, old, wide-brimmed hat in his hand.
He seemed in a state of bewildered anxiety. At one minute he
stretched out his hand to support the head of the coffin and only
hindered the bearers, at another he ran alongside and tried to find
a place for himself there. A flower fell on the snow and he rushed
to pick it up as though everything in the world depended on the
loss of that flower.

"And the crust of bread, we've forgotten the crust!" he cried
suddenly in dismay. But the boys reminded him at once that he had
taken the crust of bread already and that it was in his pocket. He
instantly pulled it out and was reassured.

"Ilusha told me to, Ilusha," he explained at once to Alyosha. "I
was sitting by him one night and he suddenly told me: 'Father, when
my grave is filled up crumble a piece of bread on it so that the
sparrows may fly down; I shall hear and it will cheer me up not to
be lying alone.'"

"That's a good thing," said Alyosha, "we must often take
some."

"Every day, every day!" said the captain quickly, seeming
cheered at the thought.
