
They reached the church at last and set the coffin in the middle
of it. The boys surrounded it and remained reverently standing so,
all through the service. It was an old and rather poor church; many
of the ikons were without settings; but such churches are the best
for praying in. During the mass Snegiryov became somewhat calmer,
though at times he had outbursts of the same unconscious and, as it
were, incoherent anxiety. At one moment he went up to the coffin to
set straight the cover or the wreath, when a candle fell out of the
candlestick he rushed to replace it and was a fearful time fumbling
over it, then he subsided and stood quietly by the coffin with a
look of blank uneasiness and perplexity. After the Epistle he
suddenly whispered to Alyosha, who was standing beside him, that
the Epistle had not been read properly but did not explain what he
meant. During the prayer, "Like the Cherubim," he joined in the
singing but did not go on to the end. Falling on his knees, he
pressed his forehead to the stone floor and lay so for a long
while.

At last came the funeral service itself and candles were
distributed. The distracted father began fussing about again, but
the touching and impressive funeral prayers moved and roused his
soul. He seemed suddenly to shrink together and broke into rapid,
short sobs, which he tried at first to smother, but at last he
sobbed aloud. When they began taking leave of the dead and closing
the coffin, he flung his arms about, as though he would not allow
them to cover Ilusha, and began greedily and persistently kissing
his dead boy on the lips. At last they succeeded in persuading him
to come away from the step, but suddenly he impulsively stretched
out his hand and snatched a few flowers from the coffin. He looked
at them and a new idea seemed to dawn upon him, so that he
apparently forgot his grief for a minute. Gradually he seemed to
sink into brooding and did not resist when the coffin was lifted up
and carried to the grave. It was an expensive one in the churchyard
close to the church, Katerina Ivanovna had paid for it. After the
customary rites the grave-diggers lowered the coffin. Snegiryov
with his flowers in his hands bent down so low over the open grave
that the boys caught hold of his coat in alarm and pulled him back.
He did not seem to understand fully what was happening. When they
began filling up the grave, he suddenly pointed anxiously at the
falling earth and began trying to say something, but no one could
make out what he meant, and he stopped suddenly. Then he was
reminded that he must crumble the bread and he was awfully excited,
snatched up the bread and began pulling it to pieces- and flinging
the morsels on the grave.

"Come, fly down, birds, fly down, sparrows!" he muttered
anxiously.

One of the boys observed that it was awkward for him to crumble
the bread with the flowers in his hands and suggested he should
give them to someone to hold for a time. But he would not do this
and seemed indeed suddenly alarmed for his flowers, as though they
wanted to take them from him altogether. And after looking at the
grave, and as it were, satisfying himself that everything had been
done and the bread had been crumbled, he suddenly, to the surprise
of everyone, turned, quite composedly even, and made his way
homewards. But his steps became more and more hurried, he almost
ran. The boys and Alyosha kept up with him.

"The flowers are for mamma, the flowers are for mamma! I was
unkind to mamma," he began exclaiming suddenly.

Someone called to him to put on his hat as it was cold. But he
flung the hat in the snow as though he were angry and kept
repeating, "I won't have the hat, I won't have the hat." Smurov
picked it up and carried it after him. All the boys were crying,
and Kolya and the boy who discovered about Troy most of all. Though
Smurov, with the captain's hat in his hand, was crying bitterly
too, he managed, as he ran, to snatch up a piece of red brick that
lay on the snow of the path, to fling it at the flock of sparrows
that was flying by. He missed them, of course, and went on crying
as he ran. Half-way, Snegiryov suddenly stopped, stood still for
half a minute, as though struck by something, and suddenly turning
back to the church, ran towards the deserted grave. But the boys
instantly overtook him and caught hold of him on all sides. Then he
fell helpless on the snow as though he had been knocked down, and
struggling, sobbing, and wailing, he began crying out, "Ilusha, old
man, dear old man!" Alyosha and Kolya tried to make him get up,
soothing and persuading him.

"Captain, give over, a brave man must show fortitude," muttered
Kolya.

"You'll spoil the flowers," said Alyosha, and mamma is expecting
them, she is sitting crying because you would not give her any
before. Ilusha's little bed is still there-"

"Yes, yes, mamma!" Snegiryov suddenly recollected, "they'll take
away the bed, they'll take it away," he added as though alarmed
that they really would. He jumped up and ran homewards again. But
it was not far off and they all arrived together. Snegiryov opened
the door hurriedly and called to his wife with whom he had so
cruelly quarrelled just before:

"Mamma, poor crippled darling, Ilusha has sent you these
flowers," he cried, holding out to her a little bunch of flowers
that had been frozen and broken while he was struggling in the
snow. But at that instant he saw in the corner, by the little bed,
Ilusha's little boots, which the landlady had put tidily side by
side. Seeing the old, patched, rusty-looking, stiff boots he flung
up his hands and rushed to them, fell on his knees, snatched up one
boot and, pressing his lips to it, began kissing it greedily,
crying, "Ilusha, old man, dear old man, where are your little
feet?"

