
"How disgraceful!" cried Pyotr Alexandrovitch.

"Pardon me!" said the Father Superior. "It was said of old,
'Many have begun to speak against me and have uttered evil sayings
about me. And hearing it I have said to myself: it is the
correction of the Lord and He has sent it to heal my vain soul.'
And so we humbly thank you, honoured guest!" and he made Fyodor
Pavlovitch a low bow.

"Tut- tut- tut- sanctimoniousness and stock phrases! Old phrases
and old gestures. The old lies and formal prostrations. We know all
about them. A kiss on the lips and a dagger in the heart, as in
Schiller's Robbers. I don't like falsehood, Fathers, I want the
truth. But the truth is not to be found in eating gudgeon and that
I proclaim aloud! Father monks, why do you fast? Why do you expect
reward in heaven for that? Why, for reward like that I will come
and fast too! No, saintly monk, you try being virtuous in the
world, do good to society, without shutting yourself up in a
monastery at other people's expense, and without expecting a reward
up aloft for it- you'll find that a bit harder. I can talk sense,
too, Father Superior. What have they got here?" He went up to the
table. "Old port wine, mead brewed by the Eliseyev Brothers. Fie,
fie, fathers! That is something beyond gudgeon. Look at the bottles
the fathers have brought out, he he he! And who has provided it
all? The Russian peasant, the labourer, brings here the farthing
earned by his horny hand, wringing it from his family and the
tax-gatherer! You bleed the people, you know, holy Fathers."

"This is too disgraceful!" said Father Iosif.

Father Paissy kept obstinately silent. Miusov rushed from the
room, and Kalgonov after him.

"Well, Father, I will follow Pyotr Alexandrovitch! I am not
coming to see you again. You may beg me on your knees, I shan't
come. I sent you a thousand roubles, so you have begun to keep your
eye on me. He he he! No, I'll say no more. I am taking my revenge
for my youth, for all the humiliation I endured." He thumped the
table with his fist in a paroxysm of simulated feeling. "This
monastery has played a great part in my life! It has cost me many
bitter tears. You used to set my wife, the crazy one, against me.
You cursed me with bell and book, you spread stories about me all
over the place. Enough, fathers! This is the age of Liberalism, the
age of steamers and railways. Neither a thousand, nor a hundred
roubles, no, nor a hundred farthings will you get out of me!"

It must be noted again that our monastery never had played any
great part in his life, and he never had shed a bitter tear owing
to it. But he was so carried away by his simulated emotion, that he
was for one moment almost believing it himself. He was so touched
he was almost weeping. But at that very instant, he felt that it
was time to draw back.

The Father Superior bowed his head at his malicious lie, and
again spoke impressively:

"It is written again, 'Bear circumspectly and gladly dishonour
that cometh upon thee by no act of thine own, be not confounded and
hate not him who hath dishonoured thee.' And so will we."

"Tut, tut, tut! Bethinking thyself and the rest of the
rigmarole. Bethink yourselves Fathers, I will go. But I will take
my son, Alexey, away from here for ever, on my parental authority.
Ivan Fyodorovitch, my most dutiful son, permit me to order you to
follow me. Von Sohn, what have you to stay for? Come and see me now
in the town. It is fun there. It is only one short verst; instead
of lenten oil, I will give you sucking-pig and kasha. We will have
dinner with some brandy and liqueur to it… . I've cloudberry wine.
Hey, von Sohn, don't lose your chance." He went out, shouting and
gesticulating.

