It was at that moment Rakitin saw him and pointed him out to
Alyosha.

"Alexey!" his father shouted, from far off, catching sight of
him. "You come home to me to-day, for good, and bring your pillow
and mattress, and leave no trace behind."

Alyosha stood rooted to the spot, watching the scene in silence.
Meanwhile, Fyodor Pavlovitch had got into the carriage, and Ivan
was about to follow him in grim silence without even turning to say
good-bye to Alyosha. But at this point another almost incredible
scene of grotesque buffoonery gave the finishing touch to the
episode. Maximov suddenly appeared by the side of the carriage. He
ran up, panting, afraid of being too late. Rakitin and Alyosha saw
him running. He was in such a hurry that in his impatience he put
his foot on the step on which Ivan's left foot was still resting,
and clutching the carriage he kept trying to jump in. "I am going
with you! " he kept shouting, laughing a thin mirthful laugh with a
look of reckless glee in his face. "Take me, too."

"There!" cried Fyodor Pavlovitch, delighted. "Did I not say he
was von Sohn. It is von Sohn himself, risen from the dead. Why, how
did you tear yourself away? What did you von Sohn there? And how
could you get away from the dinner? You must be a brazen-faced
fellow! I am that myself, but I am surprised at you, brother! Jump
in, jump in! Let him pass, Ivan. It will be fun. He can lie
somewhere at our feet. Will you lie at our feet, von Sohn? Or perch
on the box with the coachman. Skip on to the box, von Sohn!"

But Ivan, who had by now taken his seat, without a word gave
Maximov a violent punch in the breast and sent him flying. It was
quite by chance he did not fall.

"Drive on!" Ivan shouted angrily to the coachman.

"Why, what are you doing, what are you about? Why did you do
that?" Fyodor Pavlovitch protested.

But the carriage had already driven away. Ivan made no
reply.

"Well, you are a fellow," Fyodor Pavlovitch said again.

After a pause of two minutes, looking askance at his son, "Why,
it was you got up all this monastery business. You urged it, you
approved of it. Why are you angry now?"

"You've talked rot enough. You might rest a bit now," Ivan
snapped sullenly.
