


Chapter

1
In
the Servants' Quarters


THE Karamazovs' house was far from being in the centre of the
town, but it was not quite outside it. It was a pleasant-looking
old house of two stories, painted grey, with a red iron roof. It
was roomy and snug, and might still last many years. There were all
sorts of unexpected little cupboards and closets and staircases.
There were rats in it, but Fyodor Pavlovitch did not altogether
dislike them. "One doesn't feel so solitary when one's left alone
in the evening," he used to say. It was his habit to send the
servants away to the lodge for the night and to lock himself up
alone. The lodge was a roomy and solid building in the yard. Fyodor
Pavlovitch used to have the cooking done there, although there was
a kitchen in the house; he did not like the smell of cooking, and,
winter and summer alike, the dishes were carried in across the
courtyard. The house was built for a large family; there was room
for five times as many, with their servants. But at the time of our
story there was no one living in the house but Fyodor Pavlovitch
and his son Ivan. And in the lodge there were only three servants:
old Grigory, and his old wife Marfa, and a young man called
Smerdyakov. Of these three we must say a few words. Of old Grigory
we have said something already. He was firm and determined and went
blindly and obstinately for his object, if once be had been brought
by any reasons (and they were often very illogical ones) to believe
that it was immutably right. He was honest and incorruptible. His
wife, Marfa Ignatyevna, had obeyed her husband's will implicitly
all her life, yet she had pestered him terribly after the
emancipation of the serfs. She was set on leaving Fyodor Pavlovitch
and opening a little shop in Moscow with their small savings. But
Grigory decided then, once for all, that "the woman's talking
nonsense, for every woman is dishonest," and that they ought not to
leave their old master, whatever he might be, for "that was now
their duty."

"Do you understand what duty is?" he asked Marfa Ignatyevna.

"I understand what duty means, Grigory Vassilyevitch, but why
it's our duty to stay here I never shall understand," Marfa
answered firmly.

"Well, don't understand then. But so it shall be. And you hold
your tongue."

And so it was. They did not go away, and Fyodor Pavlovitch
promised them a small sum for wages, and paid it regularly. Grigory
knew, too, that he had an indisputable influence over his master.
It was true, and he was aware of it. Fyodor Pavlovitch was an
obstinate and cunning buffoon, yet, though his will was strong
enough "in some of the affairs of life," as he expressed it, he
found himself, to his surprise, extremely feeble in facing certain
other emergencies. He knew his weaknesses and was afraid of them.
There are positions in which one has to keep a sharp lookout. And
that's not easy without a trustworthy man, and Grigory was a most
trustworthy man. Many times in the course of his life Fyodor
Pavlovitch had only just escaped a sound thrashing through
Grigory's intervention, and on each occasion the old servant gave
him a good lecture. But it wasn't only thrashings that Fyodor
Pavlovitch was afraid of. There were graver occasions, and very
subtle and complicated ones, when Fyodor Pavlovitch could not have
explained the extraordinary craving for someone faithful and
devoted, which sometimes unaccountably came upon him all in a
moment. It was almost a morbid condition. Corrupt and often cruel
in his lust, like some noxious insect, Fyodor Pavlovitch was
sometimes, in moments of drunkenness, overcome by superstitious
terror and a moral convulsion which took an almost physical form.
"My soul's simply quaking in my throat at those times," he used to
say. At such moments he liked to feel that there was near at hand,
in the lodge if not in the room, a strong, faithful man, virtuous
and unlike himself, who had seen all his debauchery and knew all
his secrets, but was ready in his devotion to overlook all that,
not to oppose him, above all, not to reproach him or threaten him
with anything, either in this world or in the next, and, in case of
need, to defend him- from whom? From somebody unknown, but terrible
and dangerous. What he needed was to feel that there was another
man, an old and tried friend, that he might call him in his sick
moments merely to look at his face, or, perhaps, exchange some
quite irrelevant words with him. And if the old servant were not
angry, he felt comforted, and if he were angry, he was more
dejected. It happened even (very rarely however) that Fyodor
Pavlovitch went at night to the lodge to wake Grigory and fetch him
for a moment. When the old man came, Fyodor Pavlovitch would begin
talking about the most trivial matters, and would soon let him go
again, sometimes even with a jest. And after he had gone, Fyodor
Pavlovitch would get into bed with a curse and sleep the sleep of
the just. Something of the same sort had happened to Fyodor
Pavlovitch on Alyosha's arrival. Alyosha "pierced his heart" by
"living with him, seeing everything and blaming nothing." Moreover,
Alyosha brought with him something his father had never known
before: a complete absence of contempt for him and an invariable
kindness, a perfectly natural unaffected devotion to the old man
who deserved it so little. All this was a complete surprise to the
old profligate, who had dropped all family ties. It was a new and
surprising experience for him, who had till then loved nothing but
"evil." When Alyosha had left him, he confessed to himself that he
had learnt something he had not till then been willing to
learn.

I have mentioned already that Grigory had detested Adelaida
Ivanovna, the first wife of Fyodor Pavlovitch and the mother of
Dmitri, and that he had, on the contrary, protected Sofya Ivanovna,
the poor "crazy woman," against his master and anyone who chanced
to speak ill or lightly of her. His sympathy for the unhappy wife
had become something sacred to him, so that even now, twenty years
after, he could not bear a slighting allusion to her from anyone,
and would at once check the offender. Externally, Grigory was cold,
dignified and taciturn, and spoke, weighing his words, without
frivolity. It was impossible to tell at first sight whether he
loved his meek, obedient wife; but he really did love her, and she
knew it.

Marfa Ignatyevna was by no means foolish; she was probably,
indeed, cleverer than her husband, or, at least, more prudent than
he in worldly affairs, and yet she had given in to him in
everything without question or complaint ever since her marriage,
and respected him for his spiritual superiority. It was remarkable
how little they spoke to one another in the course of their lives,
and only of the most necessary daily affairs. The grave and
dignified Grigory thought over all his cares and duties alone, so
that Marfa Ignatyevna had long grown used to knowing that he did
not need her advice. She felt that her husband respected her
silence, and took it as a sign of her good sense. He had never
beaten her but once, and then only slightly. Once during the year
after Fyodor Pavlovitch's marriage with Adelaida Ivanovna, the
village girls and women- at that time serfs- were called together
before the house to sing and dance. They were beginning "In the
Green Meadows," when Marfa, at that time a young woman, skipped
forward and danced "the Russian Dance," not in the village fashion,
but as she had danced it when she was a servant in the service of
the rich Miusov family, in their private theatre, where the actors
were taught to dance by a dancing master from Moscow. Grigory saw
how his wife danced, and, an hour later, at home in their cottage
he gave her a lesson, pulling her hair a little. But there it
ended: the beating was never repeated, and Marfa Ignatyevna gave up
dancing.
