
God had not blessed them with children. One child was born but
it died. Grigory was fond of children, and was not ashamed of
showing it. When Adelaida Ivanovna had run away, Grigory took
Dmitri, then a child of three years old, combed his hair and washed
him in a tub with his own hands, and looked after him for almost a
year. Afterwards he had looked after Ivan and Alyosha, for which
the general's widow had rewarded him with a slap in the face; but I
have already related all that. The only happiness his own child had
brought him had been in the anticipation of its birth. When it was
born, he was overwhelmed with grief and horror. The baby had six
fingers. Grigory was so crushed by this, that he was not only
silent till the day of the christening, but kept away in the
garden. It was spring, and he spent three days digging the kitchen
garden. The third day was fixed for christening the baby: meantime
Grigory had reached a conclusion. Going into the cottage where the
clergy were assembled and the visitors had arrived, including
Fyodor Pavlovitch, who was to stand godfather, he suddenly
announced that the baby "ought not to be christened at all." He
announced this quietly, briefly, forcing out his words, and gazing
with dull intentness at the priest.

"Why not?" asked the priest with good-humoured surprise.

"Because it's a dragon," muttered Grigory.

"A dragon? What dragon?"

Grigory did not speak for some time. "It's a confusion of
nature," he muttered vaguely, but firmly, and obviously unwilling
to say more.

They laughed, and, of course, christened the poor baby. Grigory
prayed earnestly at the font, but his opinion of the new-born child
remained unchanged. Yet he did not interfere in any way. As long as
the sickly infant lived he scarcely looked at it, tried indeed not
to notice it, and for the most part kept out of the cottage. But
when, at the end of a fortnight, the baby died of thrush, he
himself laid the child in its little coffin, looked at it in
profound grief, and when they were filling up the shallow little
grave he fell on his knees and bowed down to the earth. He did not
for years afterwards mention his child, nor did Marfa speak of the
baby before him, and, even if Grigory were not present, she never
spoke of it above a whisper. Marfa observed that, from the day of
the burial, he devoted himself to "religion," and took to reading
the Lives of the Saints, for the most part sitting alone and in
silence, and always putting on his big, round, silver-rimmed
spectacles. He rarely read aloud, only perhaps in Lent. He was fond
of the Book of Job, and had somehow got hold of a copy of the
sayings and sermons of "the God fearing Father Isaac the Syrian,
which he read persistently for years together, understanding very
little of it, but perhaps prizing and loving it the more for that.
Of late he had begun to listen to the doctrines of the sect of
Flagellants settled in the neighbourhood. He was evidently shaken
by them, but judged it unfitting to go over to the new faith. His
habit of theological reading gave him an expression of still
greater gravity.

He was perhaps predisposed to mysticism. And the birth of his
deformed child, and its death, had, as though by special design,
been accompanied by another strange and marvellous event, which, as
he said later, had left a "stamp" upon his soul. It happened that,
on the very night after the burial of his child, Marfa was awakened
by the wail of a new-born baby. She was frightened and waked her
husband. He listened and said he thought it was more like someone
groaning, "it might be a woman." He got up and dressed. It was a
rather warm night in May. As he went down the steps, he distinctly
heard groans coming from the garden. But the gate from the yard
into the garden was locked at night, and there was no other way of
entering it, for it was enclosed all round by a strong, high fence.
Going back into the house, Grigory lighted a lantern, took the
garden key, and taking no notice of the hysterical fears of his
wife, who was still persuaded that she heard a child crying, and
that it was her own baby crying and calling for her, went into the
garden in silence. There he heard at once that the groans came from
the bath-house that stood near the garden gate, and that they were
the groans of a woman. Opening the door of the bath-house, he saw a
sight which petrified him. An idiot girl, who wandered about the
streets and was known to the whole town by the nickname of Lizaveta
Smerdyastchaya (Stinking Lizaveta), had got into the bath-house and
had just given birth to a child. She lay dying with the baby beside
her. She said nothing, for she had never been able to speak. But
her story needs a chapter to itself.




