
"'Four thousand! What do you mean? I was joking. You've been
counting your chickens too easily, madam. Two hundred, if you like,
with all my heart. But four thousand is not a sum to throw away on
such frivolity. You've put yourself out to no purpose.'

"I should have lost the game, of course. She'd have run away.
But it would have been an infernal revenge. It would have been
worth it all. I'd have howled with regret all the rest of my life,
only to have played that trick. Would you believe it, it has never
happened to me with any other woman, not one, to look at her at
such a moment with hatred. But, on my oath, I looked at her for
three seconds, or five perhaps, with fearful hatred- that hate
which is only a hair's-breadth from love, from the maddest
love!

"I went to the window, put my forehead against the frozen pane,
and I remember the ice burnt my forehead like fire. I did not keep
her long, don't be afraid. I turned round, went up to the table,
opened the drawer and took out a banknote for five thousand roubles
(it was lying in a French dictionary). Then I showed it her in
silence, folded it, handed it to her, opened the door into the
passage, and, stepping back, made her a deep bow. a most
respectful, a most impressive bow, believe me! She shuddered all
over, gazed at me for a second, turned horribly pale-white as a
sheet, in fact- and all at once, not impetuously but softly,
gently, bowed down to my feet- not a boarding-school curtsey, but a
Russian bow, with her forehead to the floor. She jumped up and ran
away. I was wearing my sword. I drew it and nearly stabbed myself
with it on the spot; why, I don't know. It would have been
frightfully stupid, of course. I suppose it was from delight. Can
you understand that one might kill oneself from delight? But I
didn't stab myself. I only kissed my sword and put it back in the
scabbard- which there was no need to have told you, by the way. And
I fancy that in telling you about my inner conflict I have laid it
on rather thick to glorify myself. But let it pass, and to hell
with all who pry into the human heart! Well, so much for that
'adventure' with Katerina Ivanovna. So now Ivan knows of it, and
you- no one else."

Dmitri got up, took a step or two in his excitement, pulled out
his handkerchief and mopped his forehead, then sat down again, not
in the same place as before, but on the opposite side, so that
Alyosha had to turn quite round to face him.




