"To father?"

"Yes, to father first. Ask him for three thousand."

"But, Mitya, he won't give it."

"As though he would! I know he won't. Do you know the meaning of
despair, Alexey?"

"Yes."

"Listen. Legally he owes me nothing. I've had it all from him, I
know that. But morally he owes me something, doesn't he? You know
he started with twenty-eight thousand of my mother's money and made
a hundred thousand with it. Let him give me back only three out of
the twenty-eight thousand, and he'll draw my soul out of hell, and
it will atone for many of his sins. For that three thousand- I give
you my solemn word- I'll make an end of everything, and he shall
hear nothing more of me. For the last time I give him the chance to
be a father. Tell him God Himself sends him this chance."

"Mitya, he won't give it for anything."

"I know he won't. I know it perfectly well. Now, especially.
That's not all. I know something more. Now, only a few days ago,
perhaps only yesterday he found out for the first time in earnest
(underline in earnest) that Grushenka is really perhaps not joking,
and really means to marry me. He knows her nature; he knows the
cat. And do you suppose he's going to give me money to help to
bring that about when he's crazy about her himself? And that's not
all, either. I can tell you more than that. I know that for the
last five days he has had three thousand drawn out of the bank,
changed into notes of a hundred roubles. packed into a large
envelope, sealed with five seals, and tied across with red tape.
You see how well I know all about it! On the envelope is written:
'To my angel, Grushenka, when she will come to me.' He scrawled it
himself in silence and in secret, and no one knows that the money's
there except the valet, Smerdyakov, whom he trusts like himself. So
now he has been expecting Grushenka for the last three or four
days; he hopes she'll come for the money. He has sent her word of
it, and she has sent him word that perhaps she'll come. And if she
does go to the old man, can I marry her after that? You understand
now why I'm here in secret and what I'm on the watch for."

"For her?"

"Yes, for her. Foma has a room in the house of these sluts here.
Foma comes from our parts; he was a soldier in our regiment. He
does jobs for them. He's watchman at night and goes grouse-shooting
in the day-time; and that's how he lives. I've established myself
in his room. Neither he nor the women of the house know the secret-
that is, that I am on the watch here."

"No one but Smerdyakov knows, then?"
