
"No, I haven't," said Alyosha, smiling, too.

"Ah, but you were frightened, you were frightened this morning,
weren't you? There, my darling, I couldn't do anything to vex you.
Do you know, Ivan, I can't resist the way he looks one straight in
the face and laughs? It makes me laugh all over. I'm so fond of
him. Alyosha, let me give you my blessing- a father's
blessing."

Alyosha rose, but Fyodor Pavlovitch had already changed his
mind.

"No, no," he said. "I'll just make the sign of the cross over
you, for now. Sit still. Now we've a treat for you, in your own
line, too. It'll make you laugh. Balaam's ass has begun talking to
us here- and how he talks! How he talks!

Balaam's ass, it appeared, was the valet, Smerdyakov. He was a
young man of about four and twenty, remarkably unsociable and
taciturn. Not that he was shy or bashful. On the contrary, he was
conceited and seemed to despise everybody.

But we must pause to say a few words about him now. He was
brought up by Grigory and Marfa, but the boy grew up "with no sense
of gratitude," as Grigory expressed it; he was an unfriendly boy,
and seemed to look at the world mistrustfully. In his childhood he
was very fond of hanging cats, and burying them with great
ceremony. He used to dress up in a sheet as though it were a
surplice, and sang, and waved some object over the dead cat as
though it were a censer. All this he did on the sly, with the
greatest secrecy. Grigory caught him once at this diversion and
gave him a sound beating. He shrank into a corner and sulked there
for a week. "He doesn't care for you or me, the monster," Grigory
used to say to Marfa, "and he doesn't care for anyone. Are you a
human being?" he said, addressing the boy directly. "You're not a
human being. You grew from the mildew in the bath-house. That's
what you are," Smerdyakov, it appeared afterwards, could never
forgive him those words. Grigory taught him to read and write, and
when he was twelve years old, began teaching him the Scriptures.
But this teaching came to nothing. At the second or third lesson
the boy suddenly grinned.

"What's that for?" asked Grigory, looking at him threateningly
from under his spectacles.

"Oh, nothing. God created light on the first day, and the sun,
moon, and stars on the fourth day. Where did the light come from on
the first day?"

Grigory was thunderstruck. The boy looked sarcastically at his
teacher. There was something positively condescending in his
expression. Grigory could not restrain himself. "I'll show you
where!" he cried, and gave the boy a violent slap on the cheek. The
boy took the slap without a word, but withdrew into his corner
again for some days. A week later he had his first attack of the
disease to which he was subject all the rest of his life- epilepsy.
When Fyodor Pavlovitch heard of it, his attitude to the boy seemed
changed at once. Till then he had taken no notice of him, though he
never scolded him, and always gave him a copeck when he met him.
Sometimes, when he was in good humour, he would send the boy
something sweet from his table. But as soon as he heard of his
illness, he showed an active interest in him, sent for a doctor,
and tried remedies, but the disease turned out to be incurable. The
fits occurred, on an average, once a month, but at various
intervals. The fits varied too, in violence: some were light and
some were very severe. Fyodor Pavlovitch strictly forbade Grigory
to use corporal punishment to the boy, and began allowing him to
come upstairs to him. He forbade him to be taught anything whatever
for a time, too. One day when the boy was about fifteen, Fyodor
Pavlovitch noticed him lingering by the bookcase, and reading the
titles through the glass. Fyodor Pavlovitch had a fair number of
books- over a hundred- but no one ever saw him reading. He at once
gave Smerdyakov the key of the bookcase. "Come, read. You shall be
my librarian. You'll be better sitting reading than hanging about
the courtyard. Come, read this," and Fyodor Pavlovitch gave him
Evenings in a Cottage near Dikanka.

He read a little but didn't like it. He did not once smile, and
ended by frowning.

