
"Why are your fits getting worse?" asked Fyodor Pavlovitch,
looking askance at his new cook. "Would you like to get married?
Shall I find you a wife?"

But Smerdyakov turned pale with anger, and made no reply. Fyodor
Pavlovitch left him with an impatient gesture. The great thing was
that he had absolute confidence in his honesty. It happened once,
when Fyodor Pavlovitch was drunk, that he dropped in the muddy
courtyard three hundred-rouble notes which he had only just
received. He only missed them next day, and was just hastening to
search his pockets when he saw the notes lying on the table. Where
had they come from? Smerdyakov had picked them up and brought them
in the day before.

"Well, my lad, I've never met anyone like you," Fyodor
Pavlovitch said shortly, and gave him ten roubles. We may add that
he not only believed in his honesty, but had, for some reason, a
liking for him, although the young man looked as morosely at him as
at everyone and was always silent. He rarely spoke. If it had
occurred to anyone to wonder at the time what the young man was
interested in, and what was in his mind, it would have been
impossible to tell by looking at him. Yet he used sometimes to stop
suddenly in the house, or even in the yard or street, and would
stand still for ten minutes, lost in thought. A physiognomist
studying his face would have said that there was no thought in it,
no reflection, but only a sort of contemplation. There is a
remarkable picture by the painter Kramskoy, called "Contemplation."
There is a forest in winter, and on a roadway through the forest,
in absolute solitude, stands a peasant in a torn kaftan and bark
shoes. He stands, as it were, lost in thought. Yet he is not
thinking; he is "contemplating." If anyone touched him he would
start and look at one as though awakening and bewildered. It's true
he would come to himself immediately; but if he were asked what he
had been thinking about, he would remember nothing. Yet probably he
has, hidden within himself, the impression which had dominated him
during the period of contemplation. Those impressions are dear to
him and no doubt he hoards them imperceptibly, and even
unconsciously. How and why, of course, he does not know either. He
may suddenly, after hoarding impressions for many years, abandon
everything and go off to Jerusalem on a pilgrimage for his soul's
salvation, or perhaps he will suddenly set fire to his native
village, and perhaps do both. There are a good many
"contemplatives" among the peasantry. Well, Smerdyakov was probably
one of them, and he probably was greedily hoarding up his
impressions, hardly knowing why.




