
I pulled in hand over hand on the cord, and when I judged myself
near enough, rose at infinite risk to about half my height and thus
commanded the roof and a slice of the interior of the cabin.

By this time the schooner and her little consort were gliding
pretty swiftly through the water; indeed, we had already fetched up
level with the camp-fire. The ship was talking, as sailors say,
loudly, treading the innumerable ripples with an incessant
weltering splash; and until I got my eye above the window-sill I
could not comprehend why the watchmen had taken no alarm. One
glance, however, was sufficient; and it was only one glance that I
durst take from that unsteady skiff. It showed me Hands and his
companion locked together in deadly wrestle, each with a hand upon
the other's throat.

I dropped upon the thwart again, none too soon, for I was near
overboard. I could see nothing for the moment but these two
furious, encrimsoned faces swaying together under the smoky lamp,
and I shut my eyes to let them grow once more familiar with the
darkness.

The endless ballad had come to an end at last, and the whole
diminished company about the camp-fire had broken into the chorus I
had heard so often:

"Fifteen men on the dead man's chest—

Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum!

Drink and the devil had done for the rest—

Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum!"

I was just thinking how busy drink and the devil were at that
very moment in the cabin of the Hispaniola, when I was surprised by
a sudden lurch of the coracle. At the same moment, she yawed
sharply and seemed to change her course. The speed in the meantime
had strangely increased.

I opened my eyes at once. All round me were little ripples,
combing over with a sharp, bristling sound and slightly
phosphorescent. The Hispaniola herself, a few yards in whose wake I
was still being whirled along, seemed to stagger in her course, and
I saw her spars toss a little against the blackness of the night;
nay, as I looked longer, I made sure she also was wheeling to the
southward.

