Now, the coxswain's hesitation seemed to be unnatural, and as
for the notion of his preferring wine to brandy, I entirely
disbelieved it. The whole story was a pretext. He wanted me to
leave the deck—so much was plain; but with what purpose I could in
no way imagine. His eyes never met mine; they kept wandering to and
fro, up and down, now with a look to the sky, now with a flitting
glance upon the dead O'Brien. All the time he kept smiling and
putting his tongue out in the most guilty, embarrassed manner, so
that a child could have told that he was bent on some deception. I
was prompt with my answer, however, for I saw where my advantage
lay and that with a fellow so densely stupid I could easily conceal
my suspicions to the end. "Some wine?" I said. "Far better. Will
you have white or red?"

"Well, I reckon it's about the blessed same to me, shipmate," he
replied; "so it's strong, and plenty of it, what's the odds?" "All
right," I answered. "I'll bring you port, Mr. Hands. But I'll have
to dig for it."

With that I scuttled down the companion with all the noise I
could, slipped off my shoes, ran quietly along the sparred gallery,
mounted the forecastle ladder, and popped my head out of the fore
companion. I knew he would not expect to see me there, yet I took
every precaution possible, and certainly the worst of my suspicions
proved too true.

He had risen from his position to his hands and knees, and
though his leg obviously hurt him pretty sharply when he moved—for
I could hear him stifle a groan—yet it was at a good, rattling rate
that he trailed himself across the deck. In half a minute he had
reached the port scuppers and picked, out of a coil of rope, a long
knife, or rather a short dirk, discoloured to the hilt with blood.
He looked upon it for a moment, thrusting forth his under jaw,
tried the point upon his hand, and then, hastily concealing it in
the bosom of his jacket, trundled back again into his old place
against the bulwark.

This was all that I required to know. Israel could move about,
he was now armed, and if he had been at so much trouble to get rid
of me, it was plain that I was meant to be the victim. What he
would do afterwards—whether he would try to crawl right across the
island from North Inlet to the camp among the swamps or whether he
would fire Long Tom, trusting that his own comrades might come
first to help him—was, of course, more than I could say.

Yet I felt sure that I could trust him in one point, since in
that our interests jumped together, and that was in the disposition
of the schooner. We both desired to have her stranded safe enough,
in a sheltered place, and so that, when the time came, she could be
got off again with as little labour and danger as might be; and
until that was done I considered that my life would certainly be
spared.

While I was thus turning the business over in my mind, I had not
been idle with my body. I had stolen back to the cabin, slipped
once more into my shoes, and laid my hand at random on a bottle of
wine, and now, with this for an excuse, I made my reappearance on
the deck.

Hands lay as I had left him, all fallen together in a bundle and
with his eyelids lowered as though he were too weak to bear the
light. He looked up, however, at my coming, knocked the neck off
the bottle like a man who had done the same thing often, and took a
good swig, with his favourite toast of "Here's luck!" Then he lay
quiet for a little, and then, pulling out a stick of tobacco,
begged me to cut him a quid.

"Cut me a junk o' that," says he, "for I haven't no knife and
hardly strength enough, so be as I had. Ah, Jim, Jim, I reckon I've
missed stays! Cut me a quid, as'll likely be the last, lad, for I'm
for my long home, and no mistake."

"Well," said I, "I'll cut you some tobacco, but if I was you and
thought myself so badly, I would go to my prayers like a Christian
man."

"Why?" said he. "Now, you tell me why."
