We must both have cried out aloud when our eyes met, but while
mine was the shrill cry of terror, his was a roar of fury like a
charging bully's. At the same instant, he threw himself forward and
I leapt sideways towards the bows. As I did so, I let go of the
tiller, which sprang sharp to leeward, and I think this saved my
life, for it struck Hands across the chest and stopped him, for the
moment, dead.

Before he could recover, I was safe out of the corner where he
had me trapped, with all the deck to dodge about. Just forward of
the main-mast I stopped, drew a pistol from my pocket, took a cool
aim, though he had already turned and was once more coming directly
after me, and drew the trigger. The hammer fell, but there followed
neither flash nor sound; the priming was useless with sea-water. I
cursed myself for my neglect. Why had not I, long before, reprimed
and reloaded my only weapons? Then I should not have been as now, a
mere fleeing sheep before this butcher.

Wounded as he was, it was wonderful how fast he could move, his
grizzled hair tumbling over his face, and his face itself as red as
a red ensign with his haste and fury. I had no time to try my other
pistol, nor indeed much inclination, for I was sure it would be
useless. One thing I saw plainly: I must not simply retreat before
him, or he would speedily hold me boxed into the bows, as a moment
since he had so nearly boxed me in the stern. Once so caught, and
nine or ten inches of the blood-stained dirk would be my last
experience on this side of eternity. I placed my palms against the
main-mast, which was of a goodish bigness, and waited, every nerve
upon the stretch.

Seeing that I meant to dodge, he also paused; and a moment or
two passed in feints on his part and corresponding movements upon
mine. It was such a game as I had often played at home about the
rocks of Black Hill Cove, but never before, you may be sure, with
such a wildly beating heart as now. Still, as I say, it was a boy's
game, and I thought I could hold my own at it against an elderly
seaman with a wounded thigh. Indeed my courage had begun to rise so
high that I allowed myself a few darting thoughts on what would be
the end of the affair, and while I saw certainly that I could spin
it out for long, I saw no hope of any ultimate escape.

Well, while things stood thus, suddenly the Hispaniola struck,
staggered, ground for an instant in the sand, and then, swift as a
blow, canted over to the port side till the deck stood at an angle
of forty-five degrees and about a puncheon of water splashed into
the scupper holes and lay, in a pool, between the deck and
bulwark.

We were both of us capsized in a second, and both of us rolled,
almost together, into the scuppers, the dead red-cap, with his arms
still spread out, tumbling stiffly after us. So near were we,
indeed, that my head came against the coxswain's foot with a crack
that made my teeth rattle. Blow and all, I was the first afoot
again, for Hands had got involved with the dead body. The sudden
canting of the ship had made the deck no place for running on; I
had to find some new way of escape, and that upon the instant, for
my foe was almost touching me. Quick as thought, I sprang into the
mizzen shrouds, rattled up hand over hand, and did not draw a
breath till I was seated on the cross-trees.

I had been saved by being prompt; the dirk had struck not half a
foot below me as I pursued my upward flight; and there stood Israel
Hands with his mouth open and his face upturned to mine, a perfect
statue of surprise and disappointment.

Now that I had a moment to myself, I lost no time in changing
the priming of my pistol, and then, having one ready for service,
and to make assurance doubly sure, I proceeded to draw the load of
the other and recharge it afresh from the beginning.

My new employment struck Hands all of a heap; he began to see
the dice going against him, and after an obvious hesitation, he
also hauled himself heavily into the shrouds, and with the dirk in
his teeth, began slowly and painfully to mount. It cost him no end
of time and groans to haul his wounded leg behind him, and I had
quietly finished my arrangements before he was much more than a
third of the way up. Then, with a pistol in either hand, I
addressed him.

"One more step, Mr. Hands," said I, "and I'll blow your brains
out! Dead men don't bite, you know," I added with a chuckle.

He stopped instantly. I could see by the working of his face
that he was trying to think, and the process was so slow and
laborious that, in my new-found security, I laughed aloud. At last,
with a swallow or two, he spoke, his face still wearing the same
expression of extreme perplexity. In order to speak he had to take
the dagger from his mouth, but in all else he remained unmoved.
