
The moon was climbing higher and higher, its light began to fall
here and there in masses through the more open districts of the
wood, and right in front of me a glow of a different colour
appeared among the trees. It was red and hot, and now and again it
was a little darkened—as it were, the embers of a bonfire
smouldering.

For the life of me I could not think what it might be.

At last I came right down upon the borders of the clearing. The
western end was already steeped in moon-shine; the rest, and the
block house itself, still lay in a black shadow chequered with long
silvery streaks of light. On the other side of the house an immense
fire had burned itself into clear embers and shed a steady, red
reverberation, contrasted strongly with the mellow paleness of the
moon. There was not a soul stirring nor a sound beside the noises
of the breeze.

I stopped, with much wonder in my heart, and perhaps a little
terror also. It had not been our way to build great fires; we were,
indeed, by the captain's orders, somewhat niggardly of firewood,
and I began to fear that something had gone wrong while I was
absent.

I stole round by the eastern end, keeping close in shadow, and
at a convenient place, where the darkness was thickest, crossed the
palisade.

To make assurance surer, I got upon my hands and knees and
crawled, without a sound, towards the corner of the house. As I
drew nearer, my heart was suddenly and greatly lightened. It is not
a pleasant noise in itself, and I have often complained of it at
other times, but just then it was like music to hear my friends
snoring together so loud and peaceful in their sleep. The sea-cry
of the watch, that beautiful "All's well," never fell more
reassuringly on my ear.

In the meantime, there was no doubt of one thing; they kept an
infamous bad watch. If it had been Silver and his lads that were
now creeping in on them, not a soul would have seen daybreak. That
was what it was, thought I, to have the captain wounded; and again
I blamed myself sharply for leaving them in that danger with so few
to mount guard.

By this time I had got to the door and stood up. All was dark
within, so that I could distinguish nothing by the eye. As for
sounds, there was the steady drone of the snorers and a small
occasional noise, a flickering or pecking that I could in no way
account for.

With my arms before me I walked steadily in. I should lie down
in my own place (I thought with a silent chuckle) and enjoy their
faces when they found me in the morning.

My foot struck something yielding—it was a sleeper's leg; and he
turned and groaned, but without awaking.

