
In the meantime, we had found nothing of any value but the
silver and the trinkets, and neither of these were in our way.
Underneath there was an old boat-cloak, whitened with sea-salt on
many a harbour-bar. My mother pulled it up with impatience, and
there lay before us, the last things in the chest, a bundle tied up
in oilcloth, and looking like papers, and a canvas bag that gave
forth, at a touch, the jingle of gold.

"I'll show these rogues that I'm an honest woman," said my
mother. "I'll have my dues, and not a farthing over. Hold Mrs.
Crossley's bag." And she began to count over the amount of the
captain's score from the sailor's bag into the one that I was
holding.

It was a long, difficult business, for the coins were of all
countries and sizes—doubloons, and louis d'ors, and guineas, and
pieces of eight, and I know not what besides, all shaken together
at random. The guineas, too, were about the scarcest, and it was
with these only that my mother knew how to make her count.

When we were about half-way through, I suddenly put my hand upon
her arm, for I had heard in the silent frosty air a sound that
brought my heart into my mouth—the tap-tapping of the blind man's
stick upon the frozen road. It drew nearer and nearer, while we sat
holding our breath. Then it struck sharp on the inn door, and then
we could hear the handle being turned and the bolt rattling as the
wretched being tried to enter; and then there was a long time of
silence both within and without. At last the tapping recommenced,
and, to our indescribable joy and gratitude, died slowly away again
until it ceased to be heard. "Mother," said I, "take the whole and
let's be going," for I was sure the bolted door must have seemed
suspicious and would bring the whole hornet's nest about our ears,
though how thankful I was that I had bolted it, none could tell who
had never met that terrible blind man.

But my mother, frightened as she was, would not consent to take
a fraction more than was due to her and was obstinately unwilling
to be content with less. It was not yet seven, she said, by a long
way; she knew her rights and she would have them; and she was still
arguing with me when a little low whistle sounded a good way off
upon the hill. That was enough, and more than enough, for both of
us.

"I'll take what I have," she said, jumping to her feet.

"And I'll take this to square the count," said I, picking up the
oilskin packet.

Next moment we were both groping downstairs, leaving the candle
by the empty chest; and the next we had opened the door and were in
full retreat. We had not started a moment too soon. The fog was
rapidly dispersing; already the moon shone quite clear on the high
ground on either side; and it was only in the exact bottom of the
dell and round the tavern door that a thin veil still hung unbroken
to conceal the first steps of our escape. Far less than half-way to
the hamlet, very little beyond the bottom of the hill, we must come
forth into the moonlight. Nor was this all, for the sound of
several footsteps running came already to our ears, and as we
looked back in their direction, a light tossing to and fro and
still rapidly advancing showed that one of the newcomers carried a
lantern.

"My dear," said my mother suddenly, "take the money and run on.
I am going to faint."

This was certainly the end for both of us, I thought. How I
cursed the cowardice of the neighbours; how I blamed my poor mother
for her honesty and her greed, for her past foolhardiness and
present weakness! We were just at the little bridge, by good
fortune; and I helped her, tottering as she was, to the edge of the
bank, where, sure enough, she gave a sigh and fell on my shoulder.
I do not know how I found the strength to do it at all, and I am
afraid it was roughly done, but I managed to drag her down the bank
and a little way under the arch. Farther I could not move her, for
the bridge was too low to let me do more than crawl below it. So
there we had to stay—my mother almost entirely exposed and both of
us within earshot of the inn.

