You can fancy the excitement into which that letter put me. I
was half beside myself with glee; and if ever I despised a man, it
was old Tom Redruth, who could do nothing but grumble and lament.
Any of the under-gamekeepers would gladly have changed places with
him; but such was not the squire's pleasure, and the squire's
pleasure was like law among them all. Nobody but old Redruth would
have dared so much as even to grumble.

The next morning he and I set out on foot for the Admiral
Benbow, and there I found my mother in good health and spirits. The
captain, who had so long been a cause of so much discomfort, was
gone where the wicked cease from troubling. The squire had had
everything repaired, and the public rooms and the sign repainted,
and had added some furniture—above all a beautiful armchair for
mother in the bar. He had found her a boy as an apprentice also so
that she should not want help while I was gone.

It was on seeing that boy that I understood, for the first time,
my situation. I had thought up to that moment of the adventures
before me, not at all of the home that I was leaving; and now, at
sight of this clumsy stranger, who was to stay here in my place
beside my mother, I had my first attack of tears. I am afraid I led
that boy a dog's life, for as he was new to the work, I had a
hundred opportunities of setting him right and putting him down,
and I was not slow to profit by them. The night passed, and the
next day, after dinner, Redruth and I were afoot again and on the
road. I said good-bye to Mother and the cove where I had lived
since I was born, and the dear old Admiral Benbow—since he was
repainted, no longer quite so dear. One of my last thoughts was of
the captain, who had so often strode along the beach with his
cocked hat, his sabre-cut cheek, and his old brass telescope. Next
moment we had turned the corner and my home was out of sight.

The mail picked us up about dusk at the Royal George on the
heath. I was wedged in between Redruth and a stout old gentleman,
and in spite of the swift motion and the cold night air, I must
have dozed a great deal from the very first, and then slept like a
log up hill and down dale through stage after stage, for when I was
awakened at last it was by a punch in the ribs, and I opened my
eyes to find that we were standing still before a large building in
a city street and that the day had already broken a long time.

"Where are we?" I asked.

"Bristol," said Tom. "Get down."

Mr. Trelawney had taken up his residence at an inn far down the
docks to superintend the work upon the schooner. Thither we had now
to walk, and our way, to my great delight, lay along the quays and
beside the great multitude of ships of all sizes and rigs and
nations. In one, sailors were singing at their work, in another
there were men aloft, high over my head, hanging to threads that
seemed no thicker than a spider's. Though I had lived by the shore
all my life, I seemed never to have been near the sea till then.
The smell of tar and salt was something new. I saw the most
wonderful figureheads, that had all been far over the ocean. I saw,
besides, many old sailors, with rings in their ears, and whiskers
curled in ringlets, and tarry pigtails, and their swaggering,
clumsy sea-walk; and if I had seen as many kings or archbishops I
could not have been more delighted.

And I was going to sea myself, to sea in a schooner, with a
piping boatswain and pig-tailed singing seamen, to sea, bound for
an unknown island, and to seek for buried treasure!

While I was still in this delightful dream, we came suddenly in
front of a large inn and met Squire Trelawney, all dressed out like
a sea-officer, in stout blue cloth, coming out of the door with a
smile on his face and a capital imitation of a sailor's walk.

"Here you are," he cried, "and the doctor came last night from
London. Bravo! The ship's company complete!"

"Oh, sir," cried I, "when do we sail?"
