
"Oh, I know'd Dick was square," returned the voice of the
coxswain, Israel Hands. "He's no fool, is Dick." And he turned his
quid and spat. "But look here," he went on, "here's what I want to
know, Barbecue: how long are we a-going to stand off and on like a
blessed bumboat? I've had a'most enough o' Cap'n Smollett; he's
hazed me long enough, by thunder! I want to go into that cabin, I
do. I want their pickles and wines, and that."

"Israel," said Silver, "your head ain't much account, nor ever
was. But you're able to hear, I reckon; leastways, your ears is big
enough. Now, here's what I say: you'll berth forward, and you'll
live hard, and you'll speak soft, and you'll keep sober till I give
the word; and you may lay to that, my son."

"Well, I don't say no, do I?" growled the coxswain. "What I say
is, when? That's what I say."

"When! By the powers!" cried Silver. "Well now, if you want to
know, I'll tell you when. The last moment I can manage, and that's
when. Here's a first-rate seaman, Cap'n Smollett, sails the blessed
ship for us. Here's this squire and doctor with a map and such—I
don't know where it is, do I? No more do you, says you. Well then,
I mean this squire and doctor shall find the stuff, and help us to
get it aboard, by the powers. Then we'll see. If I was sure of you
all, sons of double Dutchmen, I'd have Cap'n Smollett navigate us
half-way back again before I struck."

"Why, we're all seamen aboard here, I should think," said the
lad Dick.

"We're all forecastle hands, you mean," snapped Silver. "We can
steer a course, but who's to set one? That's what all you gentlemen
split on, first and last. If I had my way, I'd have Cap'n Smollett
work us back into the trades at least; then we'd have no blessed
miscalculations and a spoonful of water a day. But I know the sort
you are. I'll finish with 'em at the island, as soon's the blunt's
on board, and a pity it is. But you're never happy till you're
drunk. Split my sides, I've a sick heart to sail with the likes of
you!"

"Easy all, Long John," cried Israel. "Who's a-crossin' of
you?"

"Why, how many tall ships, think ye, now, have I seen laid
aboard? And how many brisk lads drying in the sun at Execution
Dock?" cried Silver. "And all for this same hurry and hurry and
hurry. You hear me? I seen a thing or two at sea, I have. If you
would on'y lay your course, and a p'int to windward, you would ride
in carriages, you would. But not you! I know you. You'll have your
mouthful of rum tomorrow, and go hang."

"Everybody knowed you was a kind of a chapling, John; but
there's others as could hand and steer as well as you," said
Israel. "They liked a bit o' fun, they did. They wasn't so high and
dry, nohow, but took their fling, like jolly companions every
one."

"So?" says Silver. "Well, and where are they now? Pew was that
sort, and he died a beggar-man. Flint was, and he died of rum at
Savannah. Ah, they was a sweet crew, they was! On'y, where are
they?"

