
"And who is that?" asked the squire.

"Silver, sir," returned the captain; "he's as anxious as you and
I to smother things up. This is a tiff; he'd soon talk 'em out of
it if he had the chance, and what I propose to do is to give him
the chance. Let's allow the men an afternoon ashore. If they all
go, why we'll fight the ship. If they none of them go, well then,
we hold the cabin, and God defend the right. If some go, you mark
my words, sir, Silver'll bring 'em aboard again as mild as
lambs."

It was so decided; loaded pistols were served out to all the
sure men; Hunter, Joyce, and Redruth were taken into our confidence
and received the news with less surprise and a better spirit than
we had looked for, and then the captain went on deck and addressed
the crew.

"My lads," said he, "we've had a hot day and are all tired and
out of sorts. A turn ashore'll hurt nobody—the boats are still in
the water; you can take the gigs, and as many as please may go
ashore for the afternoon. I'll fire a gun half an hour before
sundown."

I believe the silly fellows must have thought they would break
their shins over treasure as soon as they were landed, for they all
came out of their sulks in a moment and gave a cheer that started
the echo in a far-away hill and sent the birds once more flying and
squalling round the anchorage.

The captain was too bright to be in the way. He whipped out of
sight in a moment, leaving Silver to arrange the party, and I fancy
it was as well he did so. Had he been on deck, he could no longer
so much as have pretended not to understand the situation. It was
as plain as day. Silver was the captain, and a mighty rebellious
crew he had of it. The honest hands—and I was soon to see it proved
that there were such on board—must have been very stupid fellows.
Or rather, I suppose the truth was this, that all hands were
disaffected by the example of the ringleaders—only some more, some
less; and a few, being good fellows in the main, could neither be
led nor driven any further. It is one thing to be idle and skulk
and quite another to take a ship and murder a number of innocent
men.

At last, however, the party was made up. Six fellows were to
stay on board, and the remaining thirteen, including Silver, began
to embark.

Then it was that there came into my head the first of the mad
notions that contributed so much to save our lives. If six men were
left by Silver, it was plain our party could not take and fight the
ship; and since only six were left, it was equally plain that the
cabin party had no present need of my assistance. It occurred to me
at once to go ashore. In a jiffy I had slipped over the side and
curled up in the fore-sheets of the nearest boat, and almost at the
same moment she shoved off.

No one took notice of me, only the bow oar saying, "Is that you,
Jim? Keep your head down." But Silver, from the other boat, looked
sharply over and called out to know if that were me; and from that
moment I began to regret what I had done.

The crews raced for the beach, but the boat I was in, having
some start and being at once the lighter and the better manned,
shot far ahead of her consort, and the bow had struck among the
shore-side trees and I had caught a branch and swung myself out and
plunged into the nearest thicket while Silver and the rest were
still a hundred yards behind.

