


Chapter

2
The First Blow


I
was so pleased at
having given the slip to Long John that I began to enjoy myself and
look around me with some interest on the strange land that I was
in.

I had crossed a marshy tract full of willows, bulrushes, and
odd, outlandish, swampy trees; and I had now come out upon the
skirts of an open piece of undulating, sandy country, about a mile
long, dotted with a few pines and a great number of contorted
trees, not unlike the oak in growth, but pale in the foliage, like
willows. On the far side of the open stood one of the hills, with
two quaint, craggy peaks shining vividly in the sun.

I now felt for the first time the joy of exploration. The isle
was uninhabited; my shipmates I had left behind, and nothing lived
in front of me but dumb brutes and fowls. I turned hither and
thither among the trees. Here and there were flowering plants,
unknown to me; here and there I saw snakes, and one raised his head
from a ledge of rock and hissed at me with a noise not unlike the
spinning of a top. Little did I suppose that he was a deadly enemy
and that the noise was the famous rattle.

Then I came to a long thicket of these oaklike trees—live, or
evergreen, oaks, I heard afterwards they should be called—which
grew low along the sand like brambles, the boughs curiously
twisted, the foliage compact, like thatch. The thicket stretched
down from the top of one of the sandy knolls, spreading and growing
taller as it went, until it reached the margin of the broad, reedy
fen, through which the nearest of the little rivers soaked its way
into the anchorage. The marsh was steaming in the strong sun, and
the outline of the Spy-glass trembled through the haze.

All at once there began to go a sort of bustle among the
bulrushes; a wild duck flew up with a quack, another followed, and
soon over the whole surface of the marsh a great cloud of birds
hung screaming and circling in the air. I judged at once that some
of my shipmates must be drawing near along the borders of the fen.
Nor was I deceived, for soon I heard the very distant and low tones
of a human voice, which, as I continued to give ear, grew steadily
louder and nearer.

This put me in a great fear, and I crawled under cover of the
nearest live-oak and squatted there, hearkening, as silent as a
mouse.

