
Lastly, They shewed the Empress a Flea, and a Lowse; which
Creatures through the Microscope appear'd so terrible to her sight,
that they had almost put her into a swoon; the description of all
their parts would be very tedious to relate, and therefore I'le
forbear it at this present. The Empress, after the view of those
strangely-shaped Creatures, pitied much those that are molested
with them, especially poor Beggars, which although they have
nothing to live on themselves, are yet necessitated to maintain and
feed of their own flesh and blood, a company of such terrible
Creatures called Lice; who, instead of thanks, do reward them with
pains, and torment them for giving them nourishment and food. But
after the Empress had seen the shapes of these monstrous Creatures,
she desir'd to know, Whether their Microscopes could&#160;hinder
their biting, or at least shew some means how to avoid them? To
which they answered, That such Arts were mechanical and below the
noble study of Microscopical observations. Then the Empress asked
them, Whether they had not such sorts of Glasses that could enlarge
and magnifie the shapes of great Bodies as well as they had done of
little ones? Whereupon they took one of their best and largest
Microscopes, and endeavoured to view a Whale thorow it; but alas!
the shape of the Whale was so big, that its Circumference went
beyond the magnifying quality of the Glass; whether the error
proceeded from the Glass, or from a wrong position of the Whale
against the reflection of light, I cannot certainly tell. The
Empress seeing the insufficiency of those Magnifying-Glasses, that
they were not able to enlarge all sorts of Objects, asked the
Bear-men, whether they could not make Glasses of a contrary nature
to those they had shewed her, to wit, such as instead of enlarging
or magnifying the shape or figure of an Object, could contract it
beneath its natural proportion: Which, in obedience to her
Majesties Commands, they did; and viewing through one of the best
of them, a huge and mighty Whale appear'd no bigger then a Sprat;
nay, through some no bigger then a Vinegar-Eele; and through their
ordinary ones, an Elephant seemed no bigger then a Flea; a Camel no
bigger then a Lowse; and an Ostrich no bigger then a Mite. To
relate all their Optick observations&#160;through the several sorts
of their Glasses, would be a tedious work, and tire even the most
patient Reader, wherefore I'le pass them by; onely this was very
remarkable and worthy to be taken notice of, that notwithstanding
their great skil, industry and ingenuity in Experimental
Philosophy, they could yet by no means contrive such Glasses, by
the help of which they could spy out a Vacuum, with all its
dimensions, nor Immaterial substances, Non-beings, and Mixt-beings,
or such as are between something and nothing; which they were very
much troubled at, hoping that yet, in time, by long study and
practice, they might perhaps attain to it.

The Bird- and Bear-men being dismissed, the Empress called both
the Syrens- or Fish-men, and the Worm-men, to deliver their
Observations which they had made, both within the Seas, and the
Earth. First, she enquired of the Fish-men whence the saltness of
the Sea did proceed? To which they answered, That there was a
volatile salt in those parts of the Earth, which as a bosom contain
the Waters of the Sea, which Salt being imbibed by the Sea, became
fixt; and this imbibing motion was that they call'd the Ebbing and
Flowing of the Sea; for, said they, the rising and swelling of the
Water, is caused by those parts of the volatile Salt as are not so
easily imbibed, which striving to ascend above the Water, bear it
up with such a motion, as Man, or some other Animal Creature, in a
violent&#160;exercise uses to take breath. This they affirmed to be
the true cause both of the saltness, and the ebbing and
flowing-motion of the Sea, and not the jogging of the Earth, or the
secret influence of the Moon, as some others had made the World
believe.

After this, the Empress enquired, Whether they had observed,
that all Animal Creatures within the Seas and other waters, had
blood? They answered, That some had blood, more or less, but some
had none. In Crea-fishes and Lobsters, said they, we perceive but
little blood; but in Crabs, Oysters, Cockles, &amp;c. none at all.
Then the Empress asked them, in what part of their Bodies that
little blood did reside? They answered, in a small vein, which in
Lobsters went through the middle of their tails, but in Crea-fishes
was found in their backs: as for other sorts of Fishes, some, said
they, had onely blood about their Gills, and others in some other
places of their Bodies; but they had not as yet observed any whose
veins did spread all over their Bodies. The Empress wondring that
there could be living Animals without Blood, to be better
satisfied, desired the Worm-men to inform her, whether they had
observed Blood in all sorts of Worms? They answered, That, as much
as they could perceive, some had Blood, and some not; a Moth, said
they, had no Blood at all, and a Lowse had, but like a Lobster, a
little Vein along her back: Also Nits, Snails, and Maggots, as well
as those that are generated out of Cheese&#160;and Fruits, as those
that are produced out of Flesh, had no blood: But, replied the
Empress, If those mentioned creatures have no blood, how is it
possible they can live? for it is commonly said, That the life of
an Animal consists in the blood, which is the seat of the Animal
spirits. They answered, That blood was not a necessary propriety to
the life of an Animal; and that that which was commonly called
Animal spirits, was nothing else but corporeal motions proper to
the nature and figure of an Animal. Then she asked both the Fish-
and Worm-men, whether all those Creatures that have blood, had a
circulation of blood in their veins and arteries? But they
answered, That it was impossible to give her Majesty an exact
account thereof, by reason the circulation of blood was an interior
motion, which their senses, neither of themselves, nor by the help
of any Optick Instrument could perceive; but as soon as they had
dissected an Animal Creature, to find out the truth thereof, the
interior corporeal motions proper to that particular figure or
creature, were altered. Then said the Empress, If all Animal
Creatures have not blood, it is certain, they all have neither
Muscles, tendons, nerves, &amp;c. But, said she, Have you ever
observed Animal Creatures that are neither flesh, nor Fish, but of
an intermediate degree between both? Truly, answered both the Fish-
and Worm-men, We have observed several Animal Creatures that live
both in Water, and on the Earth, indifferently, and if
any,&#160;certainly those may be said to be of such a mixt nature,
that is, partly Flesh, and partly Fish: But how is it possible,
replied the Empress, that they should live both in Water, and on
the Earth, since those Animals that live by the respiration of Air,
cannot live within Water; and those that live in Water, cannot live
by the respiration of Air, as Experience doth sufficiently witness.
They answered her Majesty, That as there were different sorts of
Creatures, so they had also different ways of Respirations; for
Respiration, said they, is nothing else but a composition and
division of parts, and the motions of nature being infinitely
various, it is impossible that all Creatures should have the like
motions; wherefore it was not necessary, that all Animal Creatures
should be bound to live either by the Air, or by Water onely, but
according as Nature had ordered it convenient to their Species. The
Empress seem'd very well satisfied with their answer, and desired
to be further informed, Whether all Animal Creatures did continue
their Species by a successive propogation of particulars, and
whether in every Species the off-springs did always resemble their
Generator or Producer, both in their interior and exterior Figures?
They answered, her Majesty, That some Species or sorts of
Creatures, were kept up by a successive propagation of an offspring
that was like the producer, but some were not. Of the first rank,
said they, are all those Animals that are of different sexes,
besides several others; but of the&#160;second rank are for the
most part those we call Insects, whose production proceds from such
causes as have no conformity or likeness with their produced
Effects; as for example, Maggots bred out of Cheese, and several
others generated out of Earth, Water, and the like. But said the
Empress, there is some likeness between Maggots and Cheese; for
Cheese has no blood, nor Maggots neither; besides, they have almost
the same taste which Cheese has. This proves nothing, answered
they; for Maggots have a visible, local, progressive motion, which
Cheese hath not. The Empress replied, That when all the Cheese was
turned into Maggots, it might be said to have local, progressive
motion. They answered, That when the Cheese by its own figurative
motions was changed into Maggots, it was no more Cheese. The
Empress confessed that she observed Nature was infinitely various
in her works, and that though the species of Creatures did
continue, yet their particulars were subject to infinite changes.
But since you have informed me, said she, of the various sorts and
productions of Animal Creatures, I desire you to tell me what you
have observed of their sensitive perceptions? Truly, answered they,
Your Majesty puts a very hard question to us, and we shall hardly
be able to give a satisfactory answer to it; for there are many
different sorts of Creatures, which as they have all different
perceptions, so they have also different organs, which&#160;our
senses are not able to discover, onely in an Oystershell we have
with admiration observed, that the common sensorium of the Oyster
lies just as the closing of the shells, where the pressure and
reaction may be perceived by the opening and shutting of the shells
every tide.

After all this, the Empress desired the Worm men to give her a
true Relation how frost was made upon the Earth? To which they
answered, That it was made much after the manner and description of
the Fish- and Bird-men, concerning the Congelation of Water into
Ice and Snow, by a commixture of saline and acid particles; which
relation added a great light to the Ape-men, who were the Chymists,
concerning their Chymical principles, Salt, Sulphur, and Mercury.
But, said the Empress, if it be so, it will require an infinite
multitude of saline particles to produce such a great quantity of
Ice, Frost and Snow: besides, said she, when Snow, Ice and Frost,
turn again into their former principle, I would fain know what
becomes of those saline particles? But neither the Worm-men, nor
the Fish- and Bird-men, could give her an answer to it.

Then the Empress enquired of them the reason, Why Springs were
not as salt as the Sea is? also, why some did ebb and flow? To
which it was answered, That the ebbing and flowing of some Springs,
was caused by hollow Caverns within the Earth, where the Seawater
crowding thorow, did thrust forward, and drew backward the
Spring-water, according to its own way of&#160;ebbing and flowing;
but others said, That it proceeded from a small proportion of
saline and acid particles, which the Spring-water imbibed from the
Earth; and although it was not so much as to be perceived by the
sense of Taste; yet it was enough to cause an ebbing and
flowing-motion. And as for the Spring- water being fresh, they
gave, according to their Observation, this following reason: There
is, said they, a certain heat within the Bowels of the Earth,
proceeding from its swift circular motion, upon its own axe, which
heat distills the rarest parts of the Earth into a fresh and
insipid water, which water being through the pores of the Earth,
conveighed into a place where it may break forth without resistance
or obstruction, causes Springs and Fountains; and these distilled
Waters within the Earth, do nourish and refresh the grosser and
drier parts thereof. This Relation confirmed the Empress in the
opinion concerning the motion of the Earth, and the fixedness of
the Sun, as the Bird-men had informed her; and then she asked the
Worm-men, whether Minerals and Vegetables were generated by the
same heat that is within the Bowels of the Earth? To which they
could give her no positive answer; onely this they affirmed, That
heat and cold were not the primary producing causes of either
Vegetables or Minerals, or other sorts of Creatures, but onely
effects; and to prove this our assertion, said they, we have
observed, that by change of some sorts of Corporeal
motions,&#160;that which is now hot, will become cold; and what is
now cold, will grow hot; but the hottest place of all, we find to
be the Center of the Earth: Neither do we observe, that the Torrid
Zone does contain so much Gold and Silver as the Temperate; nor is
there great store of Iron and Lead wheresoever there is Gold; for
these Metals are most found in colder Climates towards either of
the Poles. This Observation, the Empress commanded them to confer
with her Chymists, the Ape-men; to let them know that Gold was not
produced by a violent, but a temperate degree of heat. She asked
further, Whether Gold could not be made by Art? They answered, That
they could not certainly tell her Majesty, but if it was possible
to be done, they thought Tin, Lead, Brass, Iron and Silver, to be
the fittest Metals for such an Artificial Transmutation. Then she
asked them, Whether Art could produce Iron, Tin, Lead, or Silver?
They answered, Not, in their opinion. Then I perceive, replyed the
Empress, that your judgments are very irregular, since you believe
that Gold, which is so fixt a Metal, that nothing has been found as
yet which could occasion a dissolution of its interior figure, may
be made by Art, and not Tin, Lead, Iron, Copper or Silver, which
yet are so far weaker, and meaner Metals then Gold is. But the
Worm-men excused themselves, that they were ignorant in that Art,
and that such questions belonged more properly to&#160;the Ape-men,
which were Her Majesties Chymists.

Then the Empress asked them, Whether by their Sensitive
perceptions they could observe the interior corporeal, figurative
Motions both of Vegetables and Minerals? They answer'd, That their
Senses could perceive them after they were produced, but not
before; Nevertheless, said they, although the interior, figurative
motions of Natural Creatures are not subject to the exterior,
animal, sensitive perceptions, yet by their Rational perception
they may judg of them, and of their productions if they be regular:
Whereupon the Empress commanded the Bear-men to lend them some of
their best Microscopes. At which the Bear- men smilingly answered
her Majesty, that their Glasses would do them but little service in
the bowels of the Earth, because there was no light; for, said
they, our Glasses do onely represent exterior objects, according to
the various reflections and positions of light; and wheresoever
light is wanting, the glasses wil do no good. To which the Worm-men
replied, that although they could not say much of refractions,
reflections, inflections, and the like; yet were they not blind,
even in the bowels of the Earth: for they could see the several
sorts of Minerals, as also minute Animals, that lived there; which
minute Animal Creatures were not blind neither, but had some kind
of sensitive perception that was as serviceable to them, as sight,
taste, smell, touch,&#160;hearing, &amp;c. was to other Animal
Creatures: By which it is evident, That Nature has been as
bountiful to those Creatures that live underground, or in the
bowels of the Earth, as to those that live upon the surface of the
Earth, or in the Air, or in Water. But howsoever, proceeded the
Worm-men, although there is light in the bowels of the Earth, yet
your Microscopes will do but little good there, by reason those
Creatures that live under ground have not such an optick sense as
those that live on the surface of the Earth: wherefore, unless you
had such Glasses as are proper for their perception, your
Microscopes will not be any ways advantagious to them. The Empress
seem'd well pleased with this answer of the Worm-men; and asked
them further, Whether Minerals and all other Creatures within the
Earth were colourless? At which question they could not forbear
laughing; and when the Empress asked the reason why they laught? We
most humbly beg your Majesties pardon, replied they; for we could
not chuse but laugh, when we heard of a colourless Body. Why, said
the Empress, Colour is onely an accident, which is an immaterial
thing, and has no being of it self, but in another body. Those,
replied they, that informed your Majesty thus, surely their
rational motions were very irregular; For how is it possible, that
a Natural nothing can have a being in Nature? If it be no
substance, it cannot have a being, and if no being, it is nothing;
Wherefore the distinction&#160;between subsisting of it self, and
subsisting in another body, is a meer nicety, and non-sense, for
there is nothing in Nature that can subsist of, or by it self, (I
mean singly) by reason all parts of Nature are composed in one
body, and though they may be infinitely divided, commixed, and
changed in their particular, yet in general, parts cannot be
separated from parts as long as Nature lasts; nay, we might as
probably affirm, that Infinite Nature would be as soon destroyed,
as that one Atom could perish; and therefore your Majesty may
firmly believe, that there is no Body without colour, nor no Colour
without body; for colour, figure, place, magnitude, and body, are
all but one thing, without any separation or abstraction from each
other.

The Empress was so wonderfully taken with this Discourse of the
Worm-men, that she not only pardoned the rudeness they committed in
laughing at first at her question, but yielded a full assent to
their opinion, which she thought the most rational that ever she
had heard yet; and then proceeding in her questions, enquired
further, whether they had observed any seminal principles within
the Earth free from all dimensions and qualities, which produced
Vegetables, Minerals, and the like? To which they answered, That
concerning the seeds of Minerals, their sensitive perceptions had
never observed any; but Vegetables had certain seeds out of which
they were produced. Then&#160;she asked, whether those seeds of
Vegetables lost their Species, that is, were annihilated in the
production of their off-spring? To which they answered, That by an
Annihilation, nothing could be produced, and that the seeds of
Vegetables were so far from being annihilated in their productions,
that they did rather numerously increase and multiply; for the
division of one seed, said they, does produce numbers of seeds out
of it self. But repli'd the Empress, A particular part cannot
increase of it self. 'Tis true, answer'd they: but they increase
not barely of themselves, but by joining and commixing with other
parts, which do assist them in their productions, and by way of
imitation form or figure their own parts into such or such
particulars. Then, I pray inform me, said the Empress, what
disguise those seeds put on, and how they do conceal themselves in
their Transmutations? They answered, That seeds did no ways
disguise or conceal, but rather divulge themselves in the
multiplication of their off-spring; onely they did hide and conceal
themselves from their sensitive perceptions so, that their
figurative and productive motions were not perceptible by Animal
Creatures. Again, the Empress asked them, whether there were any
Non-beings within the Earth? To which they answered, That they
never heard of any such thing; and that, if her Majesty would know
the truth thereof, she must ask those Creatures that are called
Immaterial spirits, which had a great affinity with
Non-beings,&#160;and perhaps could give her a satisfactory answer
to this question. Then she desired to be informed, What opinion
they had of the beginning of Forms? They told her Majesty, That
they did not understand what she meant by this expression; For,
said they, there is no beginning in Nature, no not of Particulars;
by reason Nature is Eternal and Infinite, and her particulars are
subject to infinite changes and transmutations by vertue of their
own Corporeal, figurative self-motions; so that there's nothing new
in Nature, not properly a beginning of any thing. The Empress
seem'd well satisfied with all those answers, and enquired further,
Whether there was no Art used by those Creatures that live within
the Earth? Yes, answered they: for the several parts of the Earth
do join and assist each other in composition or framing of such or
such particulars; and many times, there are factions and divisions;
which cause productions of mixt Species; as, for example, weeds,
instead of sweet flowres and useful fruits; but Gardeners and
Husbandmen use often to decide their quarrels, and cause them to
agree; which though it shews a kindness to the differing parties,
yet 'tis a great prejudice to the Worms, and other Animal-
Creatures that live under ground; for it most commonly causes their
dissolution and ruine, at best they are driven out of their
habitations. What, said the Empress, are not Worms produced out of
the Earth? Their production in general, answered they, is
like&#160;the production of all other Natural Creatures, proceeding
from the corporeal figurative motions of Nature; but as for their
particular productions, they are according to the nature of their
Species; some are produced out of flowers, some out of roots, some
out of fruits, some out of ordinary Earth. Then they are very
ungrateful Children, replied the Empress, that they feed on their
own Parents which gave them life. Their life, answered they, is
their own, and not their Parents; for no part or creature of Nature
can either give or take away life; but parts do onely assist and
join with parts, either in dissolution or production of other Parts
and Creatures.

After this, and several other Conferences, which the Empress
held with the Worm-men, she dismissed them; and having taken much
satisfaction in several of their Answers, encouraged them in their
Studies and Observations. Then she made a Convocation of her
Chymists, the Ape-men; and commanded them to give her an account of
the several Transmutations which their Art was able to produce.
They begun first with a long and tedious Discourse concerning the
Primitive Ingredients of Natural bodies; and how, by their Art,
they had found out the principles out of which they consist. But
they did not all agree in their opinions; for some said, That the
Principles of all Natural Bodies were the four Elements, Fire, Air,
Water, Earth, out of which they were composed: Others
rejected&#160;this Elementary commixture, and said, There were many
Bodies out of which none of the four Elements could be extracted by
any degree of Fire whatsoever; and that, on the other side, there
were divers Bodies, whose resolution by Fire reduced them into more
then four different Ingredients; and these affirmed, That the only
principles of Natural Bodies were Salt, Sulphur, and Mercury:
Others again declared, That none of the forementioned could be
called the True Principles of Natural Bodies; but that by their
industry and pains which they had taken in the Art of Chymistry,
they had discovered, that all Natural Bodies were produced but from
one Principle, which was Water; for all Vegetables, Minerals, and
Animals, said they, are nothing else, but simple Water
distinguished into various figures by the vertue of their Seeds.
But after a great many debates and contentions about this Subject,
the Empress being so much tired that she was not able to hear them
any longer, imposed a general silence upon them, and then declared
her self in this following Discourse.

I am too sensible of the pains you have taken in the Art of
Chymistry, to discover the Principles of Natural Bodies, and wish
they had been more profitably bestowed upon some other, then such
experiments; for both by my own Contemplation, and the Observations
which I have made by my rational &amp; sensitive perception upon
Nature, and her works, I find,&#160;that Nature is but one Infinite
Self-moving Body, which by the vertue of its self-motion, is
divided into Infinite parts, which parts being restless, undergo
perpetual changes and transmutations by their infinite compositions
and divisions. Now, if this be so, as surely, according to regular
Sense and Reason, it appears no otherwise; it is in vain to look
for primary Ingredients, or constitutive principles of Natural
Bodies, since there is no more but one Universal Principle of
Nature, to wit, self-moving Matter, which is the onely cause of all
natural effects. Next, I desire you to consider, that Fire is but a
particular Creature, or effect of Nature, and occasions not onely
different effects in several Bodies, but on some Bodies has no
power at all; witness Gold, which never could be brought yet to
change its interior figure by the art of Fire; and if this be so,
Why should you be so simple as to believe that Fire can shew you
the Principles of Nature? and that either the Four Elements, or
Water onely, or Salt Sulphur and Mercury, all which are no more but
particular effects and Creatures of Nature, should be the Primitive
Ingredients or Principles of all Natural Bodies? Wherefore, I will
not have you to take more pains, and waste your time in such
fruitless attempts, but be wiser hereafter, and busie your selves
with such Experiments as may be beneficial to the publick.

The Empress having thus declared her mind to the Ape-men, and
given them better Instructions then perhaps they expected, not
knowing that her Majesty had such great and able judgment in
Natural Philosophy, had several conferences with them concerning
Chymical Preperations, which for brevities sake, I'le forbear to
reherse: Amongst the rest, she asked, how it came that the Imperial
Race appear'd so young, and yet was reported to have lived so long;
some of them two, some three, and some four hundred years? and
whether it was by Nature, or a special Divine blessing? To which
they answered, That there was a certain Rock in the parts of that
World, which contained the Golden Sands, which Rock was hallow
within, and did produce a Gum that was a hundred years before it
came to its full strength and perfection; this Gum, said they, if
it be held in a warm hand, will dissolve into an Oyl, the effects
whereof are following: It being given every day for some certain
time, to an old decayed man, in the bigness of a little Pea, will
first make him spit for a week, or more; after this, it will cause
Vomits of Flegm; and after that it will bring forth by vomits,
humors of several colours; first of a pale yellow, then of a deep
yellow, then of a green, and lastly of a black colour; and each of
these humours have a several taste, some are fresh, some salt, some
sower, some bitter, and so forth; neither do all these Vomits make
them sick, but they come out on a sudden, and&#160;unawares,
without any pain or trouble to the patient: And after it hath done
all these mentioned effects, and clear'd both the Stomack and
several other parts of the body, then it works upon the Brain, and
brings forth of the Nose such kinds of humors as it did out of the
Mouth, and much after the same manner; then it will purge by stool,
then by urine, then by sweat, and lastly by bleeding at the Nose,
and the Emeroids; all which effects it will perform within the
space of six weeks, or a little more; for it does not work very
strongly, but gently, and by degrees: Lastly, when it has done all
this, it will make the body break out into a thick Scab, and cause
both Hair, Teeth, and Nails to come off; which scab being arrived
to its full maturity, opens first along the back, and comes off all
in a piece like armour, and all this is done within the space of
four months. After this the Patient is wrapt into a Cere- cloth,
prepared of certain Gums and Juices, wherein he continues until the
time of nine Months be expired from the first beginning of the
cure, which is the time of a Childs formation in the Womb. In the
mean while, his diet is nothing else but Eagles-eggs, and
Hinds-milk; and after the Cere-cloth is taken away, he will appear
of the age of Twenty, both in shape, and strength. The weaker sort
of this Gum is soveraign in healing of wounds, and curing of slight
distempers. But this is also to be observed, that none of the
Imperial race does use any other drink but Lime-water,
or&#160;water in which Lime-stone is immerged; their meat is
nothing else but Fowl of several sorts, their recreations are many,
but chiefly Hunting.

