"Not quite," replied Jo modestly. "I do think&#160;
The
Witches Curse, an Operatic Tragedy
&#160;is rather a nice
thing, but I'd like to try
Macbeth
, if we only had a
trapdoor for Banquo. I always wanted to do the killing part. 'Is
that a dagger that I see before me?" muttered Jo, rolling her eyes
and clutching at the air, as she had seen a famous tragedian
do.

"No, it's the toasting fork, with Mother's shoe on it instead of
the bread. Beth's stage-struck!" cried Meg, and the rehearsal ended
in a general burst of laughter.

"Glad to find you so merry, my girls," said a cheery voice at
the door, and actors and audience turned to welcome a tall,
motherly lady with a 'can I help you' look about her which was
truly delightful. She was not elegantly dressed, but a
noble-looking woman, and the girls thought the gray cloak and
unfashionable bonnet covered the most splendid mother in the
world.

"Well, dearies, how have you got on today? There was so much to
do, getting the boxes ready to go tomorrow, that I didn't come home
to dinner. Has anyone called, Beth? How is your cold, Meg? Jo, you
look tired to death. Come and kiss me, baby."

While making these maternal inquiries Mrs. March got her wet
things off, her warm slippers on, and sitting down in the easy
chair, drew Amy to her lap, preparing to enjoy the happiest hour of
her busy day. The girls flew about, trying to make things
comfortable, each in her own way. Meg arranged the tea table, Jo
brought wood and set chairs, dropping, over-turning, and clattering
everything she touched. Beth trotted to and fro between parlor
kitchen, quiet and busy, while Amy gave directions to everyone, as
she sat with her hands folded.

As they gathered about the table, Mrs. March said, with a
particularly happy face, "I've got a treat for you after
supper."

A quick, bright smile went round like a streak of sunshine. Beth
clapped her hands, regardless of the biscuit she held, and Jo
tossed up her napkin, crying, "A letter! A letter! Three cheers for
Father!"

"Yes, a nice long letter. He is well, and thinks he shall get
through the cold season better than we feared. He sends all sorts
of loving wishes for Christmas, and an especial message to you
girls," said Mrs. March, patting her pocket as if she had got a
treasure there.

"Hurry and get done! Don't stop to quirk your little finger and
simper over your plate, Amy," cried Jo, choking on her tea and
dropping her bread, butter side down, on the carpet in her haste to
get at the treat.
