"You rogue! You traitor! Jo, how could you?" cried the three
girls, as Snodgrass led her friend triumphantly forth, and
producing both a chair and a badge, installed him in a jiffy.

"The coolness of you two rascals is amazing," began Mr.
Pickwick, trying to get up an awful frown and only succeeding in
producing an amiable smile. But the new member was equal to the
occasion, and rising, with a grateful salutation to the Chair, said
in the most engaging manner, "Mr. President and ladies—I beg
pardon, gentlemen—allow me to introduce myself as Sam Weller, the
very humble servant of the club."

"Good! Good!" cried Jo, pounding with the handle of the old
warming pan on which she leaned.

"My faithful friend and noble patron," continued Laurie with a
wave of the hand, "who has so flatteringly presented me, is not to
be blamed for the base stratagem of tonight. I planned it, and she
only gave in after lots of teasing."

"Come now, don't lay it all on yourself. You know I proposed the
cupboard," broke in Snodgrass, who was enjoying the joke
amazingly.

"Never mind what she says. I'm the wretch that did it, sir,"
said the new member, with a Welleresque nod to Mr. Pickwick. "But
on my honor, I never will do so again, and henceforth devote myself
to the interest of this immortal club."

"Hear! Hear!" cried Jo, clashing the lid of the warming pan like
a cymbal.

"Go on, go on!" added Winkle and Tupman, while the President
bowed benignly.

"I merely wish to say, that as a slight token of my gratitude
for the honor done me, and as a means of promoting friendly
relations between adjoining nations, I have set up a post office in
the hedge in the lower corner of the garden, a fine, spacious
building with padlocks on the doors and every convenience for the
mails, also the females, if I may be allowed the expression. It's
the old martin house, but I've stopped up the door and made the
roof open, so it will hold all sorts of things, and save our
valuable time. Letters, manuscripts, books, and bundles can be
passed in there, and as each nation has a key, it will be
uncommonly nice, I fancy. Allow me to present the club key, and
with many thanks for your favor, take my seat."

Great applause as Mr. Weller deposited a little key on the table
and subsided, the warming pan clashed and waved wildly, and it was
some time before order could be restored. A long discussion
followed, and everyone came out surprising, for everyone did her
best. So it was an unusually lively meeting, and did not adjourn
till a late hour, when it broke up with three shrill cheers for the
new member.

No one ever regretted the admittance of Sam Weller, for a more
devoted, well-behaved, and jovial member no club could have. He
certainly did add 'spirit' to the meetings, and 'a tone' to the
paper, for his orations convulsed his hearers and his contributions
were excellent, being patriotic, classical, comical, or dramatic,
but never sentimental. Jo regarded them as worthy of Bacon, Milton,
or Shakespeare, and remodeled her own works with good effect, she
thought.
