
Beth ate no more, but crept away to sit in her shadowy corner
and brood over the delight to come, till the others were ready.

"I think it was so splendid in Father to go as chaplain when he
was too old to be drafted, and not strong enough for a soldier,"
said Meg warmly.

"Don't I wish I could go as a drummer, a vivan—what's its name?
Or a nurse, so I could be near him and help him," exclaimed Jo,
with a groan.

"It must be very disagreeable to sleep in a tent, and eat all
sorts of bad-tasting things, and drink out of a tin mug," sighed
Amy.

"When will he come home, Marmee?" asked Beth, with a little
quiver in her voice.

"Not for many months, dear, unless he is sick. He will stay and
do his work faithfully as long as he can, and we won't ask for him
back a minute sooner than he can be spared. Now come and hear the
letter."

They all drew to the fire, Mother in the big chair with Beth at
her feet, Meg and Amy perched on either arm of the chair, and Jo
leaning on the back, where no one would see any sign of emotion if
the letter should happen to be touching. Very few letters were
written in those hard times that were not touching, especially
those which fathers sent home. In this one little was said of the
hardships endured, the dangers faced, or the homesickness
conquered. It was a cheerful, hopeful letter, full of lively
descriptions of camp life, marches, and military news, and only at
the end did the writer's heart over-flow with fatherly love and
longing for the little girls at home.

"Give them all of my dear love and a kiss. Tell them I think of
them by day, pray for them by night, and find my best comfort in
their affection at all times. A year seems very long to wait before
I see them, but remind them that while we wait we may all work, so
that these hard days need not be wasted. I know they will remember
all I said to them, that they will be loving children to you, will
do their duty faithfully, fight their bosom enemies bravely, and
conquer themselves so beautifully that when I come back to them I
may be fonder and prouder than ever of my little women." Everybody
sniffed when they came to that part. Jo wasn't ashamed of the great
tear that dropped off the end of her nose, and Amy never minded the
rumpling of her curls as she hid her face on her mother's shoulder
and sobbed out, "I am a selfish girl! But I'll truly try to be
better, so he mayn't be disappointed in me by-and-by."

"We all will," cried Meg. "I think too much of my looks and hate
to work, but won't any more, if I can help it."

"I'll try and be what he loves to call me, 'a little woman' and
not be rough and wild, but do my duty here instead of wanting to be
somewhere else," said Jo, thinking that keeping her temper at home
was a much harder task than facing a rebel or two down South.

