There was a queer smile about Mr. Brooke's mouth as he opened at
poor Mary's lament.

Meg obediently following the long grass-blade which her new
tutor used to point with, read slowly and timidly, unconsciously
making poetry of the hard words by the soft intonation of her
musical voice. Down the page went the green guide, and presently,
forgetting her listener in the beauty of the sad scene, Meg read as
if alone, giving a little touch of tragedy to the words of the
unhappy queen. If she had seen the brown eyes then, she would have
stopped short, but she never looked up, and the lesson was not
spoiled for her.

"Very well indeed!" said Mr. Brooke, as she paused, quite
ignoring her many mistakes, and looking as if he did indeed love to
teach.

Miss Kate put up her glass, and, having taken a survey of the
little tableau before her, shut her sketch book, saying with
condescension, "You've a nice accent and in time will be a clever
reader. I advise you to learn, for German is a valuable
accomplishment to teachers. I must look after Grace, she is
romping." And Miss Kate strolled away, adding to herself with a
shrug, "I didn't come to chaperone a governess, though she is young
and pretty. What odd people these Yankees are. I'm afraid Laurie
will be quite spoiled among them."

"I forgot that English people rather turn up their noses at
governesses and don't treat them as we do," said Meg, looking after
the retreating figure with an annoyed expression.

"Tutors also have rather a hard time of it there, as I know to
my sorrow. There's no place like America for us workers, Miss
Margaret." And Mr. Brooke looked so contented and cheerful that Meg
was ashamed to lament her hard lot.

"I'm glad I live in it then. I don't like my work, but I get a
good deal of satisfaction out of it after all, so I won't complain.
I only wished I liked teaching as you do."

"I think you would if you had Laurie for a pupil. I shall be
very sorry to lose him next year," said Mr. Brooke, busily punching
holes in the turf.

"Going to college, I suppose?" Meg's lips asked the question,
but her eyes added, "And what becomes of you?"

"Yes, it's high time he went, for he is ready, and as soon as he
is off, I shall turn soldier. I am needed."

"I am glad of that!" exclaimed Meg. "I should think every young
man would want to go, though it is hard for the mothers and sisters
who stay at home," she added sorrowfully.
