
"Yes, I should think so," and Laurie thought regretfully of his
own idle days.

"Mother likes to have us out-of-doors as much as possible, so we
bring our work here and have nice times. For the fun of it we bring
our things in these bags, wear the old hats, use poles to climb the
hill, and play pilgrims, as we used to do years ago. We call this
hill the Delectable Mountain, for we can look far away and see the
country where we hope to live some time."

Jo pointed, and Laurie sat up to examine, for through an opening
in the wood one could look cross the wide, blue river, the meadows
on the other side, far over the outskirts of the great city, to the
green hills that rose to meet the sky. The sun was low, and the
heavens glowed with the splendor of an autumn sunset. Gold and
purple clouds lay on the hilltops, and rising high into the ruddy
light were silvery white peaks that shone like the airy spires of
some Celestial City.

"How beautiful that is!" said Laurie softly, for he was quick to
see and feel beauty of any kind.

"It's often so, and we like to watch it, for it is never the
same, but always splendid," replied Amy, wishing she could paint
it.

"Jo talks about the country where we hope to live sometime—the
real country, she means, with pigs and chickens and haymaking. It
would be nice, but I wish the beautiful country up there was real,
and we could ever go to it," said Beth musingly.

"There is a lovelier country even than that, where we shall go,
by-and-by, when we are good enough," answered Meg with her sweetest
voice.

"It seems so long to wait, so hard to do. I want to fly away at
once, as those swallows fly, and go in at that splendid gate."

"You'll get there, Beth, sooner or later, no fear of that," said
Jo. "I'm the one that will have to fight and work, and climb and
wait, and maybe never get in after all."

"You'll have me for company, if that's any comfort. I shall have
to do a deal of traveling before I come in sight of your Celestial
City. If I arrive late, you'll say a good word for me, won't you,
Beth?"

