"Why?" asked Meg, looking surprised.

"Because if you care much about riches, you will never go and
marry a poor man," said Jo, frowning at Laurie, who was mutely
warning her to mind what she said.

"I shall never 'go and marry' anyone," observed Meg, walking on
with great dignity while the others followed, laughing, whispering,
skipping stones, and 'behaving like children', as Meg said to
herself, though she might have been tempted to join them if she had
not had her best dress on.

For a week or two, Jo behaved so queerly that her sisters were
quite bewildered. She rushed to the door when the postman rang, was
rude to Mr. Brooke whenever they met, would sit looking at Meg with
a woe-begone face, occasionally jumping up to shake and then kiss
her in a very mysterious manner. Laurie and she were always making
signs to one another, and talking about 'Spread Eagles' till the
girls declared they had both lost their wits. On the second
Saturday after Jo got out of the window, Meg, as she sat sewing at
her window, was scandalized by the sight of Laurie chasing Jo all
over the garden and finally capturing her in Amy's bower. What went
on there, Meg could not see, but shrieks of laughter were heard,
followed by the murmur of voices and a great flapping of
newspapers.

"What shall we do with that girl? She never will behave like a
young lady," sighed Meg, as she watched the race with a
disapproving face.

"I hope she won't. She is so funny and dear as she is," said
Beth, who had never betrayed that she was a little hurt at Jo's
having secrets with anyone but her.

"It's very trying, but we never can make her comme la fo," added
Amy, who sat making some new frills for herself, with her curls
tied up in a very becoming way, two agreeable things that made her
feel unusually elegant and ladylike.

In a few minutes Jo bounced in, laid herself on the sofa, and
affected to read.

"Have you anything interesting there?" asked Meg, with
condescension.

"Nothing but a story, won't amount to much, I guess," returned
Jo, carefully keeping the name of the paper out of sight.

"You'd better read it aloud. That will amuse us and keep you out
of mischief," said Amy in her most grown-up tone.
