
"I'm very sorry to hear of this, Miss March," he said, in the
kind, quiet tone which sounded very pleasantly to her perturbed
spirit. "I came to offer myself as escort to your mother. Mr.
Laurence has commissions for me in Washington, and it will give me
real satisfaction to be of service to her there."

Down dropped the rubbers, and the tea was very near following,
as Meg put out her hand, with a face so full of gratitude that Mr.
Brooke would have felt repaid for a much greater sacrifice than the
trifling one of time and comfort which he was about to take.

"How kind you all are! Mother will accept, I'm sure, and it will
be such a relief to know that she has someone to take care of her.
Thank you very, very much!"

Meg spoke earnestly, and forgot herself entirely till something
in the brown eyes looking down at her made her remember the cooling
tea, and lead the way into the parlor, saying she would call her
mother.

Everything was arranged by the time Laurie returned with a note
from Aunt March, enclosing the desired sum, and a few lines
repeating what she had often said before, that she had always told
them it was absurd for March to go into the army, always predicted
that no good would come of it, and she hoped they would take her
advice the next time. Mrs. March put the note in the fire, the
money in her purse, and went on with her preparations, with her
lips folded tightly in a way which Jo would have understood if she
had been there.

The short afternoon wore away. All other errands were done, and
Meg and her mother busy at some necessary needlework, while Beth
and Amy got tea, and Hannah finished her ironing with what she
called a 'slap and a bang', but still Jo did not come. They began
to get anxious, and Laurie went off to find her, for no one knew
what freak Jo might take into her head. He missed her, however, and
she came walking in with a very queer expression of countenance,
for there was a mixture of fun and fear, satisfaction and regret in
it, which puzzled the family as much as did the roll of bills she
laid before her mother, saying with a little choke in her voice,
"That's my contribution toward making Father comfortable and
bringing him home!"

"My dear, where did you get it? Twenty-five dollars! Jo, I hope
you haven't done anything rash?"

"No, it's mine honestly. I didn't beg, borrow, or steal it. I
earned it, and I don't think you'll blame me, for I only sold what
was my own."

As she spoke, Jo took off her bonnet, and a general outcry
arose, for all her abundant hair was cut short.

"Your hair! Your beautiful hair!" "Oh, Jo, how could you? Your
one beauty." "My dear girl, there was no need of this." "She
doesn't look like my Jo any more, but I love her dearly for
it!"

