As everyone exclaimed, and Beth hugged the cropped head
tenderly, Jo assumed an indifferent air, which did not deceive
anyone a particle, and said, rumpling up the brown bush and trying
to look as if she liked it, "It doesn't affect the fate of the
nation, so don't wail, Beth. It will be good for my vanity, I was
getting too proud of my wig. It will do my brains good to have that
mop taken off. My head feels deliciously light and cool, and the
barber said I could soon have a curly crop, which will be boyish,
becoming, and easy to keep in order. I'm satisfied, so please take
the money and let's have supper."

"Tell me all about it, Jo. I am not quite satisfied, but I can't
blame you, for I know how willingly you sacrificed your vanity, as
you call it, to your love. But, my dear, it was not necessary, and
I'm afraid you will regret it one of these days," said Mrs.
March.

"No, I won't!" returned Jo stoutly, feeling much relieved that
her prank was not entirely condemned.

"What made you do it?" asked Amy, who would as soon have thought
of cutting off her head as her pretty hair.

"Well, I was wild to do something for Father," replied Jo, as
they gathered about the table, for healthy young people can eat
even in the midst of trouble. "I hate to borrow as much as Mother
does, and I knew Aunt March would croak, she always does, if you
ask for a ninepence. Meg gave all her quarterly salary toward the
rent, and I only got some clothes with mine, so I felt wicked, and
was bound to have some money, if I sold the nose off my face to get
it."

"You needn't feel wicked, my child! You had no winter things and
got the simplest with your own hard earnings," said Mrs. March with
a look that warmed Jo's heart.

"I hadn't the least idea of selling my hair at first, but as I
went along I kept thinking what I could do, and feeling as if I'd
like to dive into some of the rich stores and help myself. In a
barber's window I saw tails of hair with the prices marked, and one
black tail, not so thick as mine, was forty dollars. It came to me
all of a sudden that I had one thing to make money out of, and
without stopping to think, I walked in, asked if they bought hair,
and what they would give for mine."

"I don't see how you dared to do it," said Beth in a tone of
awe.

"Oh, he was a little man who looked as if he merely lived to oil
his hair. He rather stared at first, as if he wasn't used to having
girls bounce into his shop and ask him to buy their hair. He said
he didn't care about mine, it wasn't the fashionable color, and he
never paid much for it in the first place. The work put into it
made it dear, and so on. It was getting late, and I was afraid if
it wasn't done right away that I shouldn't have it done at all, and
you know when I start to do a thing, I hate to give it up. So I
begged him to take it, and told him why I was in such a hurry. It
was silly, I dare say, but it changed his mind, for I got rather
excited, and told the story in my topsy-turvy way, and his wife
heard, and said so kindly, 'Take it, Thomas, and oblige the young
lady. I'd do as much for our Jimmy any day if I had a spire of hair
worth selling."

"Who was Jimmy?" asked Amy, who liked to have things explained
as they went along.

"Her son, she said, who was in the army. How friendly such
things make strangers feel, don't they? She talked away all the
time the man clipped, and diverted my mind nicely."
