"Don't laugh at me, Jo! I didn't mean anyone should know till
the time came. I only meant to change the little bottle for a big
one, and I gave all my money to get it, and I'm truly trying not to
be selfish any more."

As she spoke, Amy showed the handsome flask which replaced the
cheap one, and looked so earnest and humble in her little effort to
forget herself that Meg hugged her on the spot, and Jo pronounced
her 'a trump', while Beth ran to the window, and picked her finest
rose to ornament the stately bottle.

"You see I felt ashamed of my present, after reading and talking
about being good this morning, so I ran round the corner and
changed it the minute I was up, and I'm so glad, for mine is the
handsomest now."

Another bang of the street door sent the basket under the sofa,
and the girls to the table, eager for breakfast.

"Merry Christmas, Marmee! Many of them! Thank you for our books.
We read some, and mean to every day," they all cried in chorus.

"Merry Christmas, little daughters! I'm glad you began at once,
and hope you will keep on. But I want to say one word before we sit
down. Not far away from here lies a poor woman with a little
newborn baby. Six children are huddled into one bed to keep from
freezing, for they have no fire. There is nothing to eat over
there, and the oldest boy came to tell me they were suffering
hunger and cold. My girls, will you give them your breakfast as a
Christmas present?"

They were all unusually hungry, having waited nearly an hour,
and for a minute no one spoke, only a minute, for Jo exclaimed
impetuously, "I'm so glad you came before we began!"

"May I go and help carry the things to the poor little
children?" asked Beth eagerly.

"I shall take the cream and the muffings," added Amy, heroically
giving up the article she most liked.

Meg was already covering the buckwheats, and piling the bread
into one big plate.

"I thought you'd do it," said Mrs. March, smiling as if
satisfied. "You shall all go and help me, and when we come back we
will have bread and milk for breakfast, and make it up at
dinnertime."
