
&#160;

Ma Chere Mamma,

We are all well I do my lessons always and never
corroberate the girls—Meg says I mean contradick so I put in both
words and you can take the properest. Meg is a great comfort to me
and lets me have jelly every night at tea its so good for me Jo
says because it keeps me sweet tempered. Laurie is not as
respeckful as he ought to be now I am almost in my teens, he calls
me Chick and hurts my feelings by talking French to me very fast
when I say Merci or Bon jour as Hattie King does. The sleeves of my
blue dress were all worn out, and Meg put in new ones, but the full
front came wrong and they are more blue than the dress. I felt bad
but did not fret I bear my troubles well but I do wish Hannah would
put more starch in my aprons and have buckwheats every day. Can't
she? Didn't I make that interrigation point nice? Meg says my
punchtuation and spelling are disgraceful and I am mortyfied but
dear me I have so many things to do, I can't stop. Adieu, I send
heaps of love to Papa. Your affectionate daughter…

AMY CURTIS MARCH

&#160;

Dear Mis March,

I jes drop a line to say we git on fust rate. The
girls is clever and fly round right smart. Miss Meg is going to
make a proper good housekeeper. She hes the liking for it, and gits
the hang of things surprisin quick. Jo doos beat all for goin
ahead, but she don't stop to cal'k'late fust, and you never know
where she's like to bring up. She done out a tub of clothes on
Monday, but she starched 'em afore they was wrenched, and blued a
pink calico dress till I thought I should a died a laughin. Beth is
the best of little creeters, and a sight of help to me, bein so
forehanded and dependable. She tries to learn everything, and
really goes to market beyond her years, likewise keeps accounts,
with my help, quite wonderful. We have got on very economical so
fur. I don't let the girls hev coffee only once a week, accordin to
your wish, and keep em on plain wholesome vittles. Amy does well
without frettin, wearin her best clothes and eatin sweet stuff. Mr.
Laurie is as full of didoes as usual, and turns the house upside
down frequent, but he heartens the girls, so I let em hev full
swing. The old gentleman sends heaps of things, and is rather
wearin, but means wal, and it aint my place to say nothin. My bread
is riz, so no more at this time. I send my duty to Mr. March, and
hope he's seen the last of his Pewmonia.

Yours respectful,&#160;
Hannah Mullet

Head Nurse of Ward No. 2,&#160;

All serene on the Rappahannock, troops in fine condition, commisary
department well conducted, the Home Guard under Colonel Teddy
always on duty, Commander in Chief General Laurence reviews the
army daily, Quartermaster Mullet keeps order in camp, and Major
Lion does picket duty at night. A salute of twenty-four guns was
fired on reciept of good news from Washington, and a dress parade
took place at headquarters. Commander in chief sends best wishes,
in which he is heartily joined by… &#160;
