
They were soon ready, and the procession set out. Fortunately it
was early, and they went through back streets, so few people saw
them, and no one laughed at the queer party.

A poor, bare, miserable room it was, with broken windows, no
fire, ragged bedclothes, a sick mother, wailing baby, and a group
of pale, hungry children cuddled under one old quilt, trying to
keep warm.

How the big eyes stared and the blue lips smiled as the girls
went in.

"Ach, mein Gott! It is good angels come to us!" said the poor
woman, crying for joy.

"Funny angels in hoods and mittens," said Jo, and set them to
laughing.

In a few minutes it really did seem as if kind spirits had been
at work there. Hannah, who had carried wood, made a fire, and
stopped up the broken panes with old hats and her own cloak. Mrs.
March gave the mother tea and gruel, and comforted her with
promises of help, while she dressed the little baby as tenderly as
if it had been her own. The girls meantime spread the table, set
the children round the fire, and fed them like so many hungry
birds, laughing, talking, and trying to understand the funny broken
English.

"Das ist gut!" "Die Engel-kinder!" cried the poor things as they
ate and warmed their purple hands at the comfortable blaze. The
girls had never been called angel children before, and thought it
very agreeable, especially Jo, who had been considered a 'Sancho'
ever since she was born. That was a very happy breakfast, though
they didn't get any of it. And when they went away, leaving comfort
behind, I think there were not in all the city four merrier people
than the hungry little girls who gave away their breakfasts and
contented themselves with bread and milk on Christmas morning.

"That's loving our neighbor better than ourselves, and I like
it," said Meg, as they set out their presents while their mother
was upstairs collecting clothes for the poor Hummels.

Not a very splendid show, but there was a great deal of love
done up in the few little bundles, and the tall vase of red roses,
white chrysanthemums, and trailing vines, which stood in the
middle, gave quite an elegant air to the table.

"She's coming! Strike up, Beth! Open the door, Amy! Three cheers
for Marmee!" cried Jo, prancing about while Meg went to conduct
Mother to the seat of honor.

