"If god spares Beth, I'll try to love and serve Him all my
life," answered Jo, with equal fervor.

"I wish I had no heart, it aches so," sighed Meg, after a
pause.

"If life is often as hard as this, I don't see how we ever shall
get through it," added her sister despondently.

Here the clock struck twelve, and both forgot themselves in
watching Beth, for they fancied a change passed over her wan face.
The house was still as death, and nothing but the wailing of the
wind broke the deep hush. Weary Hannah slept on, and no one but the
sisters saw the pale shadow which seemed to fall upon the little
bed. An hour went by, and nothing happened except Laurie's quiet
departure for the station. Another hour, still no one came, and
anxious fears of delay in the storm, or accidents by the way, or,
worst of all, a great grief at Washington, haunted the girls.

It was past two, when Jo, who stood at the window thinking how
dreary the world looked in its winding sheet of snow, heard a
movement by the bed, and turning quickly, saw Meg kneeling before
their mother's easy chair with her face hidden. A dreadful fear
passed coldly over Jo, as she thought, "Beth is dead, and Meg is
afraid to tell me."

She was back at her post in an instant, and to her excited eyes
a great change seemed to have taken place. The fever flush and the
look of pain were gone, and the beloved little face looked so pale
and peaceful in its utter repose that Jo felt no desire to weep or
to lament. Leaning low over this dearest of her sisters, she kissed
the damp forehead with her heart on her lips, and softly whispered,
"Goodby, my Beth. Goodby!"

As if awaked by the stir, Hannah started out of her sleep,
hurried to the bed, looked at Beth, felt her hands, listened at her
lips, and then, throwing her apron over her head, sat down to rock
to and fro, exclaiming, under her breath, "The fever's turned,
she's sleepin' nat'ral, her skin's damp, and she breathes easy.
Praise be given! Oh, my goodness me!"

Before the girls could believe the happy truth, the doctor came
to confirm it. He was a homely man, but they thought his face quite
heavenly when he smiled and said, with a fatherly look at them,
"Yes, my dears, I think the little girl will pull through this
time. Keep the house quiet, let her sleep, and when she wakes, give
her… "

What they were to give, neither heard, for both crept into the
dark hall, and, sitting on the stairs, held each other close,
rejoicing with hearts too full for words. When they went back to be
kissed and cuddled by faithful Hannah, they found Beth lying, as
she used to do, with her cheek pillowed on her hand, the dreadful
pallor gone, and breathing quietly, as if just fallen asleep.

"If Mother would only come now!" said Jo, as the winter night
began to wane.

"See," said Meg, coming up with a white, half-opened rose, "I
thought this would hardly be ready to lay in Beth's hand tomorrow
if she—went away from us. But it has blossomed in the night, and
now I mean to put it in my vase here, so that when the darling
wakes, the first thing she sees will be the little rose, and
Mother's face."
