&#160;

"How nice! But I wish she'd let us have them now.
Procrastination is not agreeable," observed Amy, taking a last look
at the diamonds.

"It is too soon yet for the young ladies to wear these things.
The first one who is affianced will have the pearls, Madame has
said it, and I have a fancy that the little turquoise ring will be
given to you when you go, for Madame approves your good behavior
and charming manners."

"Do you think so? Oh, I'll be a lamb, if I can only have that
lovely ring! It's ever so much prettier than Kitty Bryant's. I do
like Aunt March after all." And Amy tried on the blue ring with a
delighted face and a firm resolve to earn it.

From that day she was a model of obedience, and the old lady
complacently admired the success of her training. Esther fitted up
the closet with a little table, placed a footstool before it, and
over it a picture taken from one of the shut-up rooms. She thought
it was of no great value, but, being appropriate, she borrowed it,
well knowing that Madame would never know it, nor care if she did.
It was, however, a very valuable copy of one of the famous pictures
of the world, and Amy's beauty-loving eyes were never tired of
looking up at the sweet face of the Divine Mother, while her tender
thoughts of her own were busy at her heart. On the table she laid
her little testament and hymnbook, kept a vase always full of the
best flowers Laurie brought her, and came every day to 'sit alone'
thinking good thoughts, and praying the dear God to preserve her
sister. Esther had given her a rosary of black beads with a silver
cross, but Amy hung it up and did not use it, feeling doubtful as
to its fitness for Protestant prayers.

The little girl was very sincere in all this, for being left
alone outside the safe home nest, she felt the need of some kind
hand to hold by so sorely that she instinctively turned to the
strong and tender Friend, whose fatherly love most closely
surrounds His little children. She missed her mother's help to
understand and rule herself, but having been taught where to look,
she did her best to find the way and walk in it confidingly. But,
Amy was a young pilgrim, and just now her burden seemed very heavy.
She tried to forget herself, to keep cheerful, and be satisfied
with doing right, though no one saw or praised her for it. In her
first effort at being very, very good, she decided to make her
will, as Aunt March had done, so that if she did fall ill and die,
her possessions might be justly and generously divided. It cost her
a pang even to think of giving up the little treasures which in her
eyes were as precious as the old lady's jewels.

During one of her play hours she wrote out the important
document as well as she could, with some help from Esther as to
certain legal terms, and when the good-natured Frenchwoman had
signed her name, Amy felt relieved and laid it by to show Laurie,
whom she wanted as a second witness. As it was a rainy day, she
went upstairs to amuse herself in one of the large chambers, and
took Polly with her for company. In this room there was a wardrobe
full of old-fashioned costumes with which Esther allowed her to
play, and it was her favorite amusement to array herself in the
faded brocades, and parade up and down before the long mirror,
making stately curtsies, and sweeping her train about with a rustle
which delighted her ears. So busy was she on this day that she did
not hear Laurie's ring nor see his face peeping in at her as she
gravely promenaded to and fro, flirting her fan and tossing her
head, on which she wore a great pink turban, contrasting oddly with
her blue brocade dress and yellow quilted petticoat. She was
obliged to walk carefully, for she had on highheeled shoes, and, as
Laurie told Jo afterward, it was a comical sight to see her mince
along in her gay suit, with Polly sidling and bridling just behind
her, imitating her as well as he could, and occasionally stopping
to laugh or exclaim, "Ain't we fine? Get along, you fright! Hold
your tongue! Kiss me, dear! Ha! Ha!"

Having with difficulty restrained an explosion of merriment,
lest it should offend her majesty, Laurie tapped and was graciously
received.

"Sit down and rest while I put these things away, then I want to
consult you about a very serious matter," said Amy, when she had
shown her splendor and driven Polly into a corner. "That bird is
the trial of my life," she continued, removing the pink mountain
from her head, while Laurie seated himself astride a chair.

"Yesterday, when Aunt was asleep and I was trying to be as still
as a mouse, Polly began to squall and flap about in his cage, so I
went to let him out, and found a big spider there. I poked it out,
and it ran under the bookcase. Polly marched straight after it,
stooped down and peeped under the bookcase, saying, in his funny
way, with a cock of his eye, 'Come out and take a walk, my dear.' I
couldn't help laughing, which made Poll swear, and Aunt woke up and
scolded us both."

"Did the spider accept the old fellow's invitation?" asked
Laurie, yawning.
