


Chapter

21
Laurie Makes Mischief, and Jo Makes Peace


Jo's face was a study next day, for the secret rather weighed
upon her, and she found it hard not to look mysterious and
important. Meg observed it, but did not trouble herself to make
inquiries, for she had learned that the best way to manage Jo was
by the law of contraries, so she felt sure of being told everything
if she did not ask. She was rather surprised, therefore, when the
silence remained unbroken, and Jo assumed a patronizing air, which
decidedly aggravated Meg, who in turn assumed an air of dignified
reserve and devoted herself to her mother. This left Jo to her own
devices, for Mrs. March had taken her place as nurse, and bade her
rest, exercise, and amuse herself after her long confinement. Amy
being gone, Laurie was her only refuge, and much as she enjoyed his
society, she rather dreaded him just then, for he was an
incorrigible tease, and she feared he would coax the secret from
her.

She was quite right, for the mischief-loving lad no sooner
suspected a mystery than he set himself to find it out, and led Jo
a trying life of it. He wheedled, bribed, ridiculed, threatened,
and scolded; affected indifference, that he might surprise the
truth from her; declared he knew, then that he didn't care; and at
last, by dint of perseverance, he satisfied himself that it
concerned Meg and Mr. Brooke. Feeling indignant that he was not
taken into his tutor's confidence, he set his wits to work to
devise some proper retaliation for the slight.

Meg meanwhile had apparently forgotten the matter and was
absorbed in preparations for her father's return, but all of a
sudden a change seemed to come over her, and, for a day or two, she
was quite unlike herself. She started when spoken to, blushed when
looked at, was very quiet, and sat over her sewing, with a timid,
troubled look on her face. To her mother's inquiries she answered
that she was quite well, and Jo's she silenced by begging to be let
alone.

"She feels it in the air—love, I mean—and she's going very fast.
She's got most of the symptoms—is twittery and cross, doesn't eat,
lies awake, and mopes in corners. I caught her singing that song he
gave her, and once she said 'John', as you do, and then turned as
red as a poppy. Whatever shall we do?" said Jo, looking ready for
any measures, however violent.

"Nothing but wait. Let her alone, be kind and patient, and
Father's coming will settle everything," replied her mother.

"Here's a note to you, Meg, all sealed up. How odd! Teddy never
seals mine," said Jo next day, as she distributed the contents of
the little post office.

Mrs. March and Jo were deep in their own affairs, when a sound
from Meg made them look up to see her staring at her note with a
frightened face.
