
"Oh, tell us what they are!" cried Meg, who sat beside him.

"Here is one." And taking up the hand which lay on the arm of
his chair, he pointed to the roughened forefinger, a burn on the
back, and two or three little hard spots on the palm. "I remember a
time when this hand was white and smooth, and your first care was
to keep it so. It was very pretty then, but to me it is much
prettier now, for in this seeming blemishes I read a little
history. A burnt offering has been made to vanity, this hardened
palm has earned something better than blisters, and I'm sure the
sewing done by these pricked fingers will last a long time, so much
good will went into the stitches. Meg, my dear, I value the womanly
skill which keeps home happy more than white hands or fashionable
accomplishments. I'm proud to shake this good, industrious little
hand, and hope I shall not soon be asked to give it away."

If Meg had wanted a reward for hours of patient labor, she
received it in the hearty pressure of her father's hand and the
approving smile he gave her.

"What about Jo? Please say something nice, for she has tried so
hard and been so very, very good to me," said Beth in her father's
ear.

He laughed and looked across at the tall girl who sat opposite,
with an unusually mild expression in her face.

"In spite of the curly crop, I don't see the 'son Jo' whom I
left a year ago," said Mr. March. "I see a young lady who pins her
collar straight, laces her boots neatly, and neither whistles,
talks slang, nor lies on the rug as she used to do. Her face is
rather thin and pale just now, with watching and anxiety, but I
like to look at it, for it has grown gentler, and her voice is
lower. She doesn't bounce, but moves quietly, and takes care of a
certain little person in a motherly way which delights me. I rather
miss my wild girl, but if I get a strong, helpful, tenderhearted
woman in her place, I shall feel quite satisfied. I don't know
whether the shearing sobered our black sheep, but I do know that in
all Washington I couldn't find anything beautiful enough to be
bought with the five-and-twenty dollars my good girl sent me."

Jo's keen eyes were rather dim for a minute, and her thin face
grew rosy in the firelight as she received her father's praise,
feeling that she did deserve a portion of it.

"Now, Beth," said Amy, longing for her turn, but ready to
wait.

"There's so little of her, I'm afraid to say much, for fear she
will slip away altogether, though she is not so shy as she used to
be," began their father cheerfully. But recollecting how nearly he
had lost her, he held her close, saying tenderly, with her cheek
against his own, "I've got you safe, my Beth, and I'll keep you so,
please God."

After a minute's silence, he looked down at Amy, who sat on the
cricket at his feet, and said, with a caress of the shining
hair…

