"Not yet. Mr. Laurence is going to help him."

"That won't last long. James Laurence is a crotchety old fellow
and not to be depended on. So you intend to marry a man without
money, position, or business, and go on working harder than you do
now, when you might be comfortable all your days by minding me and
doing better? I thought you had more sense, Meg."

"I couldn't do better if I waited half my life! John is good and
wise, he's got heaps of talent, he's willing to work and sure to
get on, he's so energetic and brave. Everyone likes and respects
him, and I'm proud to think he cares for me, though I'm so poor and
young and silly," said Meg, looking prettier than ever in her
earnestness.

"He knows you have got rich relations, child. That's the secret
of his liking, I suspect."

"Aunt March, how dare you say such a thing? John is above such
meanness, and I won't listen to you a minute if you talk so," cried
Meg indignantly, forgetting everything but the injustice of the old
lady's suspicions. "My John wouldn't marry for money, any more than
I would. We are willing to work and we mean to wait. I'm not afraid
of being poor, for I've been happy so far, and I know I shall be
with him because he loves me, and I… "

Meg stopped there, remembering all of a sudden that she hadn't
made up her mind, that she had told 'her John' to go away, and that
he might be overhearing her inconsistent remarks.

Aunt March was very angry, for she had set her heart on having
her pretty niece make a fine match, and something in the girl's
happy young face made the lonely old woman feel both sad and
sour.

"Well, I wash my hands of the whole affair! You are a willful
child, and you've lost more than you know by this piece of folly.
No, I won't stop. I'm disappointed in you, and haven't spirits to
see your father now. Don't expect anything from me when you are
married. Your Mr. Brooke's friends must take care of you. I'm done
with you forever."

And slamming the door in Meg's face, Aunt March drove off in
high dudgeon. She seemed to take all the girl's courage with her,
for when left alone, Meg stood for a moment, undecided whether to
laugh or cry. Before she could make up her mind, she was taken
possession of by Mr. Brooke, who said all in one breath, "I
couldn't help hearing, Meg. Thank you for defending me, and Aunt
March for proving that you do care for me a little bit."

"I didn't know how much till she abused you," began Meg.

"And I needn't go away, but may stay and be happy, may I,
dear?"
