"Hope the next will end better," muttered Jo, who found it very
hard to see Meg absorbed in a stranger before her face, for Jo
loved a few persons very dearly and dreaded to have their affection
lost or lessened in any way.

"I hope the third year from this will end better. I mean it
shall, if I live to work out my plans," said Mr. Brooke, smiling at
Meg, as if everything had become possible to him now.

"Doesn't it seem very long to wait?" asked Amy, who was in a
hurry for the wedding.

"I've got so much to learn before I shall be ready, it seems a
short time to me," answered Meg, with a sweet gravity in her face
never seen there before.

"You have only to wait, I am to do the work," said John
beginning his labors by picking up Meg's napkin, with an expression
which caused Jo to shake her head, and then say to herself with an
air of relief as the front door banged, "Here comes Laurie. Now we
shall have some sensible conversation."

But Jo was mistaken, for Laurie came prancing in, overflowing
with good spirits, bearing a great bridal-looking bouquet for 'Mrs.
John Brooke', and evidently laboring under the delusion that the
whole affair had been brought about by his excellent
management.

"I knew Brooke would have it all his own way, he always does,
for when he makes up his mind to accomplish anything, it's done
though the sky falls," said Laurie, when he had presented his
offering and his congratulations.

"Much obliged for that recommendation. I take it as a good omen
for the future and invite you to my wedding on the spot," answered
Mr. Brooke, who felt at peace with all mankind, even his
mischievous pupil.

"I'll come if I'm at the ends of the earth, for the sight of
Jo's face alone on that occasion would be worth a long journey. You
don't look festive, ma'am, what's the matter?" asked Laurie,
following her into a corner of the parlor, whither all had
adjourned to greet Mr. Laurence.

"I don't approve of the match, but I've made up my mind to bear
it, and shall not say a word against it," said Jo solemnly. "You
can't know how hard it is for me to give up Meg," she continued
with a little quiver in her voice.

"You don't give her up. You only go halves," said Laurie
consolingly.
