
"It can never be the same again. I've lost my dearest friend,"
sighed Jo.

"You've got me, anyhow. I'm not good for much, I know, but I'll
stand by you, Jo, all the days of my life. Upon my word I will!"
and Laurie meant what he said.

"I know you will, and I'm ever so much obliged. You are always a
great comfort to me, Teddy," returned Jo, gratefully shaking
hands.

"Well, now, don't be dismal, there's a good fellow. It's all
right you see. Meg is happy, Brooke will fly round and get settled
immediately, Grandpa will attend to him, and it will be very jolly
to see Meg in her own little house. We'll have capital times after
she is gone, for I shall be through college before long, and then
we'll go abroad on some nice trip or other. Wouldn't that console
you?"

"I rather think it would, but there's no knowing what may happen
in three years," said Jo thoughtfully.

"That's true. Don't you wish you could take a look forward and
see where we shall all be then? I do," returned Laurie.

"I think not, for I might see something sad, and everyone looks
so happy now, I don't believe they could be much improved." And
Jo's eyes went slowly round the room, brightening as they looked,
for the prospect was a pleasant one.

Father and Mother sat together, quietly reliving the first
chapter of the romance which for them began some twenty years ago.
Amy was drawing the lovers, who sat apart in a beautiful world of
their own, the light of which touched their faces with a grace the
little artist could not copy. Beth lay on her sofa, talking
cheerily with her old friend, who held her little hand as if he
felt that it possessed the power to lead him along the peaceful way
she walked. Jo lounged in her favorite low seat, with the grave
quiet look which best became her, and Laurie, leaning on the back
of her chair, his chin on a level with her curly head, smiled with
his friendliest aspect, and nodded at her in the long glass which
reflected them both.

&#160;

So the curtain falls upon Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy. Whether it
ever rises again, depends upon the reception given the first act of
the domestic drama called&#160;
Little Women
