
Meg had spent the time in working as well as waiting, growing
womanly in character, wise in housewifely arts, and prettier than
ever, for love is a great beautifier. She had her girlish ambitions
and hopes, and felt some disappointment at the humble way in which
the new life must begin. Ned Moffat had just married Sallie
Gardiner, and Meg couldn't help contrasting their fine house and
carriage, many gifts, and splendid outfit with her own, and
secretly wishing she could have the same. But somehow envy and
discontent soon vanished when she thought of all the patient love
and labor John had put into the little home awaiting her, and when
they sat together in the twilight, talking over their small plans,
the future always grew so beautiful and bright that she forgot
Sallie's splendor and felt herself the richest, happiest girl in
Christendom.

Jo never went back to Aunt March, for the old lady took such a
fancy to Amy that she bribed her with the offer of drawing lessons
from one of the best teachers going, and for the sake of this
advantage, Amy would have served a far harder mistress. So she gave
her mornings to duty, her afternoons to pleasure, and prospered
finely. Jo meantime devoted herself to literature and Beth, who
remained delicate long after the fever was a thing of the past. Not
an invalid exactly, but never again the rosy, healthy creature she
had been, yet always hopeful, happy, and serene, and busy with the
quiet duties she loved, everyone's friend, and an angel in the
house, long before those who loved her most had learned to know
it.

As long as&#160;
The Spread Eagle
&#160;paid her a dollar
a column for her 'rubbish', as she called it, Jo felt herself a
woman of means, and spun her little romances diligently. But great
plans fermented in her busy brain and ambitious mind, and the old
tin kitchen in the garret held a slowly increasing pile of blotted
manuscript, which was one day to place the name of March upon the
roll of fame.

Laurie, having dutifully gone to college to please his
grandfather, was now getting through it in the easiest possible
manner to please himself. A universal favorite, thanks to money,
manners, much talent, and the kindest heart that ever got its owner
into scrapes by trying to get other people out of them, he stood in
great danger of being spoiled, and probably would have been, like
many another promising boy, if he had not possessed a talisman
against evil in the memory of the kind old man who was bound up in
his success, the motherly friend who watched over him as if he were
her son, and last, but not least by any means, the knowledge that
four innocent girls loved, admired, and believed in him with all
their hearts.

Being only 'a glorious human boy', of course he frolicked and
flirted, grew dandified, aquatic, sentimental, or gymnastic, as
college fashions ordained, hazed and was hazed, talked slang, and
more than once came perilously near suspension and expulsion. But
as high spirits and the love of fun were the causes of these
pranks, he always managed to save himself by frank confession,
honorable atonement, or the irresistible power of persuasion which
he possessed in perfection. In fact, he rather prided himself on
his narrow escapes, and liked to thrill the girls with graphic
accounts of his triumphs over wrathful tutors, dignified
professors, and vanquished enemies. The 'men of my class', were
heroes in the eyes of the girls, who never wearied of the exploits
of 'our fellows', and were frequently allowed to bask in the smiles
of these great creatures, when Laurie brought them home with
him.

Amy especially enjoyed this high honor, and became quite a belle
among them, for her ladyship early felt and learned to use the gift
of fascination with which she was endowed. Meg was too much
absorbed in her private and particular John to care for any other
lords of creation, and Beth too shy to do more than peep at them
and wonder how Amy dared to order them about so, but Jo felt quite
in her own element, and found it very difficult to refrain from
imitating the gentlemanly attitudes, phrases, and feats, which
seemed more natural to her than the decorums prescribed for young
ladies. They all liked Jo immensely, but never fell in love with
her, though very few escaped without paying the tribute of a
sentimental sigh or two at Amy's shrine. And speaking of sentiment
brings us very naturally to the 'Dovecote'.

That was the name of the little brown house Mr. Brooke had
prepared for Meg's first home. Laurie had christened it, saying it
was highly appropriate to the gentle lovers who 'went on together
like a pair of turtledoves, with first a bill and then a coo'. It
was a tiny house, with a little garden behind and a lawn about as
big as a pocket handkerchief in the front. Here Meg meant to have a
fountain, shrubbery, and a profusion of lovely flowers, though just
at present the fountain was represented by a weather-beaten urn,
very like a dilapidated slopbowl, the shrubbery consisted of
several young larches, undecided whether to live or die, and the
profusion of flowers was merely hinted by regiments of sticks to
show where seeds were planted. But inside, it was altogether
charming, and the happy bride saw no fault from garret to cellar.
To be sure, the hall was so narrow it was fortunate that they had
no piano, for one never could have been got in whole, the dining
room was so small that six people were a tight fit, and the kitchen
stairs seemed built for the express purpose of precipitating both
servants and china pell-mell into the coalbin. But once get used to
these slight blemishes and nothing could be more complete, for good
sense and good taste had presided over the furnishing, and the
result was highly satisfactory. There were no marble-topped tables,
long mirrors, or lace curtains in the little parlor, but simple
furniture, plenty of books, a fine picture or two, a stand of
flowers in the bay window, and, scattered all about, the pretty
gifts which came from friendly hands and were the fairer for the
loving messages they brought.

I don't think the Parian Psyche Laurie gave lost any of its
beauty because John put up the bracket it stood upon, that any
upholsterer could have draped the plain muslin curtains more
gracefully than Amy's artistic hand, or that any store-room was
ever better provided with good wishes, merry words, and happy hopes
than that in which Jo and her mother put away Meg's few boxes,
barrels, and bundles, and I am morally certain that the spandy new
kitchen never could have looked so cozy and neat if Hannah had not
arranged every pot and pan a dozen times over, and laid the fire
all ready for lighting the minute 'Mis. Brooke came home'. I also
doubt if any young matron ever began life with so rich a supply of
dusters, holders, and piece bags, for Beth made enough to last till
the silver wedding came round, and invented three different kinds
of dishcloths for the express service of the bridal china.

People who hire all these things done for them never know what
they lose, for the homeliest tasks get beautified if loving hands
do them, and Meg found so many proofs of this that everything in
her small nest, from the kitchen roller to the silver vase on her
parlor table, was eloquent of home love and tender forethought.

