
A demand so sudden and so serious made the young man hesitate a
moment, for ridicule is often harder to bear than self-denial. Meg
knew that if he gave the promise he would keep it at all costs, and
feeling her power, used it as a woman may for her friend's good.
She did not speak, but she looked up at him with a face made very
eloquent by happiness, and a smile which said, "No one can refuse
me anything today."

Laurie certainly could not, and with an answering smile, he gave
her his hand, saying heartily, "I promise, Mrs. Brooke!"

"I thank you, very, very much."

"And I drink 'long life to your resolution', Teddy," cried Jo,
baptizing him with a splash of lemonade, as she waved her glass and
beamed approvingly upon him.

So the toast was drunk, the pledge made and loyally kept in
spite of many temptations, for with instinctive wisdom, the girls
seized a happy moment to do their friend a service, for which he
thanked them all his life.

After lunch, people strolled about, by twos and threes, through
the house and garden, enjoying the sunshine without and within. Meg
and John happened to be standing together in the middle of the
grass plot, when Laurie was seized with an inspiration which put
the finishing touch to this unfashionable wedding.

"All the married people take hands and dance round the new-made
husband and wife, as the Germans do, while we bachelors and
spinsters prance in couples outside!" cried Laurie, promenading
down the path with Amy, with such infectious spirit and skill that
everyone else followed their example without a murmur. Mr. and Mrs.
March, Aunt and Uncle Carrol began it, others rapidly joined in,
even Sallie Moffat, after a moment's hesitation, threw her train
over her arm and whisked Ned into the ring. But the crowning joke
was Mr. Laurence and Aunt March, for when the stately old gentleman
chasseed solemnly up to the old lady, she just tucked her cane
under her arm, and hopped briskly away to join hands with the rest
and dance about the bridal pair, while the young folks pervaded the
garden like butterflies on a midsummer day.

Want of breath brought the impromptu ball to a close, and then
people began to go.

"I wish you well, my dear, I heartily wish you well, but I think
you'll be sorry for it," said Aunt March to Meg, adding to the
bridegroom, as he led her to the carriage, "You've got a treasure,
young man, see that you deserve it."

"That is the prettiest wedding I've been to for an age, Ned, and
I don't see why, for there wasn't a bit of style about it,"
observed Mrs. Moffat to her husband, as they drove away.

