
Meg agreed at once, and promised her aid, gladly offering
anything she possessed, from her little house itself to her very
best saltspoons. But Jo frowned upon the whole project and would
have nothing to do with it at first.

"Why in the world should you spend your money, worry your
family, and turn the house upside down for a parcel of girls who
don't care a sixpence for you? I thought you had too much pride and
sense to truckle to any mortal woman just because she wears French
boots and rides in a coupe," said Jo, who, being called from the
tragic climax of her novel, was not in the best mood for social
enterprises.

"I don't truckle, and I hate being patronized as much as you
do!" returned Amy indignantly, for the two still jangled when such
questions arose. "The girls do care for me, and I for them, and
there's a great deal of kindness and sense and talent among them,
in spite of what you call fashionable nonsense. You don't care to
make people like you, to go into good society, and cultivate your
manners and tastes. I do, and I mean to make the most of every
chance that comes. You can go through the world with your elbows
out and your nose in the air, and call it independence, if you
like. That's not my way."

When Amy had whetted her tongue and freed her mind she usually
got the best of it, for she seldom failed to have common sense on
her side, while Jo carried her love of liberty and hate of
conventionalities to such an unlimited extent that she naturally
found herself worsted in an argument. Amy's definition of Jo's idea
of independence was such a good hit that both burst out laughing,
and the discussion took a more amiable turn. Much against her will,
Jo at length consented to sacrifice a day to Mrs. Grundy, and help
her sister through what she regarded as 'a nonsensical
business'.

The invitations were sent, nearly all accepted, and the
following Monday was set apart for the grand event. Hannah was out
of humor because her week's work was deranged, and prophesied that
"ef the washin' and ironin' warn't done reg'lar, nothin' would go
well anywheres". This hitch in the mainspring of the domestic
machinery had a bad effect upon the whole concern, but Amy's motto
was 'Nil desperandum', and having made up her mind what to do, she
proceeded to do it in spite of all obstacles. To begin with,
Hannah's cooking didn't turn out well. The chicken was tough, the
tongue too salty, and the chocolate wouldn't froth properly. Then
the cake and ice cost more than Amy expected, so did the wagon, and
various other expenses, which seemed trifling at the outset,
counted up rather alarmingly afterward. Beth got a cold and took to
her bed. Meg had an unusual number of callers to keep her at home,
and Jo was in such a divided state of mind that her breakages,
accidents, and mistakes were uncommonly numerous, serious, and
trying.

If it was not fair on Monday, the young ladies were to come on
Tuesday, an arrangement which aggravated Jo and Hannah to the last
degree. On Monday morning the weather was in that undecided state
which is more exasperating than a steady pour. It drizzled a
little, shone a little, blew a little, and didn't make up its mind
till it was too late for anyone else to make up theirs. Amy was up
at dawn, hustling people out of their beds and through their
breakfasts, that the house might be got in order. The parlor struck
her as looking uncommonly shabby, but without stopping to sigh for
what she had not, she skillfully made the best of what she had,
arranging chairs over the worn places in the carpet, covering
stains on the walls with homemade statuary, which gave an artistic
air to the room, as did the lovely vases of flowers Jo scattered
about.

The lunch looked charming, and as she surveyed it, she sincerely
hoped it would taste well, and that the borrowed glass, china, and
silver would get safely home again. The carriages were promised,
Meg and Mother were all ready to do the honors, Beth was able to
help Hannah behind the scenes, Jo had engaged to be as lively and
amiable as an absent mind, and aching head, and a very decided
disapproval of everybody and everything would allow, and as she
wearily dressed, Amy cheered herself with anticipations of the
happy moment when, lunch safely over, she should drive away with
her friends for an afternoon of artistic delights, for the 'cherry
bounce' and the broken bridge were her strong points.

Then came the hours of suspense, during which she vibrated from
parlor to porch, while public opinion varied like the weathercock.
A smart shower at eleven had evidently quenched the enthusiasm of
the young ladies who were to arrive at twelve, for nobody came, and
at two the exhausted family sat down in a blaze of sunshine to
consume the perishable portions of the feast, that nothing might be
lost.

"No doubt about the weather today, they will certainly come, so
we must fly round and be ready for them," said Amy, as the sun woke
her next morning. She spoke briskly, but in her secret soul she
wished she had said nothing about Tuesday, for her interest like
her cake was getting a little stale.

"I can't get any lobsters, so you will have to do without salad
today," said Mr. March, coming in half an hour later, with an
expression of placid despair.

