


Chapter

4
Literary Lessons


Fortune suddenly smiled upon Jo, and dropped a good luck penny
in her path. Not a golden penny, exactly, but I doubt if half a
million would have given more real happiness then did the little
sum that came to her in this wise.

Every few weeks she would shut herself up in her room, put on
her scribbling suit, and 'fall into a vortex', as she expressed it,
writing away at her novel with all her heart and soul, for till
that was finished she could find no peace. Her 'scribbling suit'
consisted of a black woolen pinafore on which she could wipe her
pen at will, and a cap of the same material, adorned with a
cheerful red bow, into which she bundled her hair when the decks
were cleared for action. This cap was a beacon to the inquiring
eyes of her family, who during these periods kept their distance,
merely popping in their heads semi-occasionally to ask, with
interest, "Does genius burn, Jo?" They did not always venture even
to ask this question, but took an observation of the cap, and
judged accordingly. If this expressive article of dress was drawn
low upon the forehead, it was a sign that hard work was going on,
in exciting moments it was pushed rakishly askew, and when despair
seized the author it was plucked wholly off, and cast upon the
floor. At such times the intruder silently withdrew, and not until
the red bow was seen gaily erect upon the gifted brow, did anyone
dare address Jo.

She did not think herself a genius by any means, but when the
writing fit came on, she gave herself up to it with entire abandon,
and led a blissful life, unconscious of want, care, or bad weather,
while she sat safe and happy in an imaginary world, full of friends
almost as real and dear to her as any in the flesh. Sleep forsook
her eyes, meals stood untasted, day and night were all too short to
enjoy the happiness which blessed her only at such times, and made
these hours worth living, even if they bore no other fruit. The
devine afflatus usually lasted a week or two, and then she emerged
from her 'vortex', hungry, sleepy, cross, or despondent.

She was just recovering from one of these attacks when she was
prevailed upon to escort Miss Crocker to a lecture, and in return
for her virtue was rewarded with a new idea. It was a People's
Course, the lecture on the Pyramids, and Jo rather wondered at the
choice of such a subject for such an audience, but took it for
granted that some great social evil would be remedied or some great
want supplied by unfolding the glories of the Pharaohs to an
audience whose thoughts were busy with the price of coal and flour,
and whose lives were spent in trying to solve harder riddles than
that of the Sphinx.

They were early, and while Miss Crocker set the heel of her
stocking, Jo amused herself by examining the faces of the people
who occupied the seat with them. On her left were two matrons, with
massive foreheads and bonnets to match, discussing Women's Rights
and making tatting. Beyond sat a pair of humble lovers, artlessly
holding each other by the hand, a somber spinster eating
peppermints out of a paper bag, and an old gentleman taking his
preparatory nap behind a yellow bandanna. On her right, her only
neighbor was a studious looking lad absorbed in a newspaper.

It was a pictorial sheet, and Jo examined the work of art
nearest her, idly wondering what fortuitous concatenation of
circumstances needed the melodramatic illustration of an Indian in
full war costume, tumbling over a precipice with a wolf at his
throat, while two infuriated young gentlemen, with unnaturally
small feet and big eyes, were stabbing each other close by, and a
disheveled female was flying away in the background with her mouth
wide open. Pausing to turn a page, the lad saw her looking and,
with boyish good nature offered half his paper, saying bluntly,
"want to read it? That's a first-rate story."

Jo accepted it with a smile, for she had never outgrown her
liking for lads, and soon found herself involved in the usual
labyrinth of love, mystery, and murder, for the story belonged to
that class of light literature in which the passions have a
holiday, and when the author's invention fails, a grand catastrophe
clears the stage of one half the dramatis personae, leaving the
other half to exult over their downfall.
