
"Prime, isn't it?" asked the boy, as her eye went down the last
paragraph of her portion.

"I think you and I could do as well as that if we tried,"
returned Jo, amused at his admiration of the trash.

"I should think I was a pretty lucky chap if I could. She makes
a good living out of such stories, they say." and he pointed to the
name of Mrs. S.L.A.N.G. Northbury, under the title of the tale.

"Do you know her?" asked Jo, with sudden interest.

"No, but I read all her pieces, and I know a fellow who works in
the office where this paper is printed."

"Do you say she makes a good living out of stories like this?"
and Jo looked more respectfully at the agitated group and thickly
sprinkled exclamation points that adorned the page.

"Guess she does! She knows just what folks like, and gets paid
well for writing it."

Here the lecture began, but Jo heard very little of it, for
while Professor Sands was prosing away about Belzoni, Cheops,
scarabei, and hieroglyphics, she was covertly taking down the
address of the paper, and boldly resolving to try for the
hundred-dollar prize offered in its columns for a sensational
story. By the time the lecture ended and the audience awoke, she
had built up a splendid fortune for herself (not the first founded
on paper), and was already deep in the concoction of her story,
being unable to decide whether the duel should come before the
elopement or after the murder.

She said nothing of her plan at home, but fell to work next day,
much to the disquiet of her mother, who always looked a little
anxious when 'genius took to burning'. Jo had never tried this
style before, contenting herself with very mild romances
for&#160;
The Spread Eagle
. Her experience and
miscellaneous reading were of service now, for they gave her some
idea of dramatic effect, and supplied plot, language, and costumes.
Her story was as full of desperation and despair as her limited
acquaintance with those uncomfortable emotions enabled her to make
it, and having located it in Lisbon, she wound up with an
earthquake, as a striking and appropriate denouement. The
manuscript was privately dispatched, accompanied by a note,
modestly saying that if the tale didn't get the prize, which the
writer hardly dared expect, she would be very glad to receive any
sum it might be considered worth.

