
"Yes," said Jo, knitting her brows, "that's just it. I've been
fussing over the thing so long, I really don't know whether it's
good, bad, or indifferent. It will be a great help to have cool,
impartial persons take a look at it, and tell me what they think of
it."

"I wouldn't leave a word out of it. You'll spoil it if you do,
for the interest of the story is more in the minds than in the
actions of the people, and it will be all a muddle if you don't
explain as you go on," said Meg, who firmly believed that this book
was the most remarkable novel ever written.

"But Mr. Allen says, 'Leave out the explanations, make it brief
and dramatic, and let the characters tell the story'," interrupted
Jo, turning to the publisher's note.

"Do as he tells you. He knows what will sell, and we don't. Make
a good, popular book, and get as much money as you can. By-and-by,
when you've got a name, you can afford to digress, and have
philosophical and metaphysical people in your novels," said Amy,
who took a strictly practical view of the subject.

"Well," said Jo, laughing, "if my people are 'philosophical and
metaphysical', it isn't my fault, for I know nothing about such
things, except what I hear father say, sometimes. If I've got some
of his wise ideas jumbled up with my romance, so much the better
for me. Now, Beth, what do you say?"

"I should so like to see it printed soon," was all Beth said,
and smiled in saying it. But there was an unconscious emphasis on
the last word, and a wistful look in the eyes that never lost their
childlike candor, which chilled Jo's heart for a minute with a
forboding fear, and decided her to make her little venture
'soon'.

So, with Spartan firmness, the young authoress laid her
first-born on her table, and chopped it up as ruthlessly as any
ogre. In the hope of pleasing everyone, she took everyone's advice,
and like the old man and his donkey in the fable suited nobody.

Her father liked the metaphysical streak which had unconsciously
got into it, so that was allowed to remain though she had her
doubts about it. Her mother thought that there was a trifle too
much description. Out, therefore it came, and with it many
necessary links in the story. Meg admired the tragedy, so Jo piled
up the agony to suit her, while Amy objected to the fun, and, with
the best intentions in life, Jo quenched the spritly scenes which
relieved the somber character of the story. Then, to complicate the
ruin, she cut it down one third, and confidingly sent the poor
little romance, like a picked robin, out into the big, busy world
to try its fate.

Well, it was printed, and she got three hundred dollars for it,
likewise plenty of praise and blame, both so much greater than she
expected that she was thrown into a state of bewilderment from
which it took her some time to recover.

"You said, Mother, that criticism would help me. But how can it,
when it's so contradictory that I don't know whether I've written a
promising book or broken all the ten commandments?" cried poor Jo,
turning over a heap of notices, the perusal of which filled her
with pride and joy one minute, wrath and dismay the next. "This man
says, 'An exquisite book, full of truth, beauty, and earnestness.'
'All is sweet, pure, and healthy.'" continued the perplexed
authoress. "The next, 'The theory of the book is bad, full of
morbid fancies, spiritualistic ideas, and unnatural characters.'
Now, as I had no theory of any kind, don't believe in Spiritualism,
and copied my characters from life, I don't see how this critic can
be right. Another says, 'It's one of the best American novels which
has appeared for years.' (I know better than that), and the next
asserts that 'Though it is original, and written with great force
and feeling, it is a dangerous book.' 'Tisn't! Some make fun of it,
some overpraise, and nearly all insist that I had a deep theory to
expound, when I only wrote it for the pleasure and the money. I
wish I'd printed the whole or not at all, for I do hate to be so
misjudged."

