
If John had not forgotten all about the jelly, it really would
have been unpardonable in him to choose that day, of all the days
in the year, to bring a friend home to dinner unexpectedly.
Congratulating himself that a handsome repast had been ordered that
morning, feeling sure that it would be ready to the minute, and
indulging in pleasant anticipations of the charming effect it would
produce, when his pretty wife came running out to meet him, he
escorted his friend to his mansion, with the irrepressible
satisfaction of a young host and husband.

It is a world of disappointments, as John discovered when he
reached the Dovecote. The front door usually stood hospitably open.
Now it was not only shut, but locked, and yesterday's mud still
adorned the steps. The parlor windows were closed and curtained, no
picture of the pretty wife sewing on the piazza, in white, with a
distracting little bow in her hair, or a bright-eyed hostess,
smiling a shy welcome as she greeted her guest. Nothing of the
sort, for not a soul appeared but a sanginary-looking boy asleep
under the current bushes.

"I'm afraid something has happened. Step into the garden, Scott,
while I look up Mrs. Brooke," said John, alarmed at the silence and
solitude.

Round the house he hurried, led by a pungent smell of burned
sugar, and Mr. Scott strolled after him, with a queer look on his
face. He paused discreetly at a distance when Brooke disappeared,
but he could both see and hear, and being a bachelor, enjoyed the
prospect mightily.

In the kitchen reigned confusion and despair. One edition of
jelly was trickled from pot to pot, another lay upon the floor, and
a third was burning gaily on the stove. Lotty, with Teutonic
phlegm, was calmly eating bread and currant wine, for the jelly was
still in a hopelessly liquid state, while Mrs. Brooke, with her
apron over her head, sat sobbing dismally.

"My dearest girl, what is the matter?" cried John, rushing in,
with awful visions of scalded hands, sudden news of affliction, and
secret consternation at the thought of the guest in the garden.

"Oh, John, I am so tired and hot and cross and worried! I've
been at it till I'm all worn out. Do come and help me or I shall
die!" and the exhausted housewife cast herself upon his breast,
giving him a sweet welcome in every sense of the word, for her
pinafore had been baptized at the same time as the floor.

"What worries you dear? Has anything dreadful happened?" asked
the anxious John, tenderly kissing the crown of the little cap,
which was all askew.

"Yes," sobbed Meg despairingly.

"Tell me quick, then. Don't cry. I can bear anything better than
that. Out with it, love."

