
John was a mild man, but he was human, and after a long day's
work to come home tired, hungry, and hopeful, to find a chaotic
house, an empty table, and a cross wife was not exactly conducive
to repose of mind or manner. He restrained himself however, and the
little squall would have blown over, but for one unlucky word.

"It's a scrape, I acknowledge, but if you will lend a hand,
we'll pull through and have a good time yet. Don't cry, dear, but
just exert yourself a bit, and fix us up something to eat. We're
both as hungry as hunters, so we shan't mind what it is. Give us
the cold meat, and bread and cheese. We won't ask for jelly."

He meant it to be a good-natured joke, but that one word sealed
his fate. Meg thought it was too cruel to hint about her sad
failure, and the last atom of patience vanished as he spoke.

"You must get yourself out of the scrape as you can. I'm too
used up to 'exert' myself for anyone. It's like a man to propose a
bone and vulgar bread and cheese for company. I won't have anything
of the sort in my house. Take that Scott up to Mother's, and tell
him I'm away, sick, dead, anything. I won't see him, and you two
can laugh at me and my jelly as much as you like. You won't have
anything else here." and having delivered her defiance all on one
breath, Meg cast away her pinafore and precipitately left the field
to bemoan herself in her own room.

What those two creatures did in her absence, she never knew, but
Mr. Scott was not taken 'up to Mother's', and when Meg descended,
after they had strolled away together, she found traces of a
promiscuous lunch which filled her with horror. Lotty reported that
they had eaten "a much, and greatly laughed, and the master bid her
throw away all the sweet stuff, and hide the pots."

Meg longed to go and tell Mother, but a sense of shame at her
own short-comings, of loyalty to John, "who might be cruel, but
nobody should know it," restrained her, and after a summary
cleaning up, she dressed herself prettily, and sat down to wait for
John to come and be forgiven.

Unfortunately, John didn't come, not seeing the matter in that
light. He had carried it off as a good joke with Scott, excused his
little wife as well as he could, and played the host so hospitably
that his friend enjoyed the impromptu dinner, and promised to come
again, but John was angry, though he did not show it, he felt that
Meg had deserted him in his hour of need. "It wasn't fair to tell a
man to bring folks home any time, with perfect freedom, and when he
took you at your word, to flame up and blame him, and leave him in
the lurch, to be laughed at or pitied. No, by George, it wasn't!
And Meg must know it."

He had fumed inwardly during the feast, but when the flurry was
over and he strolled home after seeing Scott off, a milder mood
came over him. "Poor little thing! It was hard upon her when she
tried so heartily to please me. She was wrong, of course, but then
she was young. I must be patient and teach her." He hoped she had
not gone home—he hated gossip and interference. For a minute he was
ruffled again at the mere thought of it, and then the fear that Meg
would cry herself sick softened his heart, and sent him on at a
quicker pace, resolving to be calm and kind, but firm, quite firm,
and show her where she had failed in her duty to her spouse.

Meg likewise resolved to be 'calm and kind, but firm', and show
him his duty. She longed to run to meet him, and beg pardon, and be
kissed and comforted, as she was sure of being, but, of course, she
did nothing of the sort, and when she saw John coming, began to hum
quite naturally, as she rocked and sewed, like a lady of leisure in
her best parlor.

John was a little disappointed not to find a tender Niobe, but
feeling that his dignity demanded the first apology, he made none,
only came leisurely in and laid himself upon the sofa with the
singularly relevant remark, "We are going to have a new moon, my
dear."

