
"You haven't seen my private expense book yet."

John never asked to see it, but she always insisted on his doing
so, and used to enjoy his masculine amazement at the queer things
women wanted, and made him guess what piping was, demand fiercely
the meaning of a hug-me-tight, or wonder how a little thing
composed of three rosebuds, a bit of velvet, and a pair of strings,
could possibly be a bonnet, and cost six dollars. That night he
looked as if he would like the fun of quizzing her figures and
pretending to be horrified at her extravagance, as he often did,
being particularly proud of his prudent wife.

The little book was brought slowly out and laid down before him.
Meg got behind his chair under pretense of smoothing the wrinkles
out of his tired forehead, and standing there, she said, with her
panic increasing with every word…

"John, dear, I'm ashamed to show you my book, for I've really
been dreadfully extravagant lately. I go about so much I must have
things, you know, and Sallie advised my getting it, so I did, and
my New Year's money will partly pay for it, but I was sorry after I
had done it, for I knew you'd think it wrong in me."

John laughed, and drew her round beside him, saying
goodhumoredly, "Don't go and hide. I won't beat you if you have got
a pair of killing boots. I'm rather proud of my wife's feet, and
don't mind if she does pay eight or nine dollars for her boots, if
they are good ones."

That had been one of her last 'trifles', and John's eye had
fallen on it as he spoke. "Oh, what will he say when he comes to
that awful fifty dollars!" thought Meg, with a shiver.

"It's worse than boots, it's a silk dress," she said, with the
calmness of desperation, for she wanted the worst over.

"Well, dear, what is the 'dem'd total', as Mr. Mantalini
says?"

That didn't sound like John, and she knew he was looking up at
her with the straightforward look that she had always been ready to
meet and answer with one as frank till now. She turned the page and
her head at the same time, pointing to the sum which would have
been bad enough without the fifty, but which was appalling to her
with that added. For a minute the room was very still, then John
said slowly—but she could feel it cost him an effort to express no
displeasure—…

"Well, I don't know that fifty is much for a dress, with all the
furbelows and notions you have to have to finish it off these
days."

