"It isn't made or trimmed," sighed Meg, faintly, for a sudden
recollection of the cost still to be incurred quite overwhelmed
her.

"Twenty-five yards of silk seems a good deal to cover one small
woman, but I've no doubt my wife will look as fine as Ned Moffat's
when she gets it on," said John dryly.

"I know you are angry, John, but I can't help it. I don't mean
to waste your money, and I didn't think those little things would
count up so. I can't resist them when I see Sallie buying all she
wants, and pitying me because I don't. I try to be contented, but
it is hard, and I'm tired of being poor."

The last words were spoken so low she thought he did not hear
them, but he did, and they wounded him deeply, for he had denied
himself many pleasures for Meg's sake. She could have bitten her
tongue out the minute she had said it, for John pushed the books
away and got up, saying with a little quiver in his voice, "I was
afraid of this. I do my best, Meg." If he had scolded her, or even
shaken her, it would not have broken her heart like those few
words. She ran to him and held him close, crying, with repentant
tears, "Oh, John, my dear, kind, hard-working boy. I didn't mean
it! It was so wicked, so untrue and ungrateful, how could I say it!
Oh, how could I say it!"

He was very kind, forgave her readily, and did not utter one
reproach, but Meg knew that she had done and said a thing which
would not be forgotten soon, although he might never allude to it
again. She had promised to love him for better or worse, and then
she, his wife, had reproached him with his poverty, after spending
his earnings recklessly. It was dreadful, and the worst of it was
John went on so quietly afterward, just as if nothing had happened,
except that he stayed in town later, and worked at night when she
had gone to cry herself to sleep. A week of remorse nearly made Meg
sick, and the discovery that John had countermanded the order for
his new greatcoat reduced her to a state of despair which was
pathetic to behold. He had simply said, in answer to her surprised
inquiries as to the change, "I can't afford it, my dear."

Meg said no more, but a few minutes after he found her in the
hall with her face buried in the old greatcoat, crying as if her
heart would break.

They had a long talk that night, and Meg learned to love her
husband better for his poverty, because it seemed to have made a
man of him, given him the strength and courage to fight his own
way, and taught him a tender patience with which to bear and
comfort the natural longings and failures of those he loved.

Next day she put her pride in her pocket, went to Sallie, told
the truth, and asked her to buy the silk as a favor. The
good-natured Mrs. Moffat willingly did so, and had the delicacy not
to make her a present of it immediately afterward. Then Meg ordered
home the greatcoat, and when John arrived, she put it on, and asked
him how he liked her new silk gown. One can imagine what answer he
made, how he received his present, and what a blissful state of
things ensued. John came home early, Meg gadded no more, and that
greatcoat was put on in the morning by a very happy husband, and
taken off at night by a most devoted little wife. So the year
rolled round, and at midsummer there came to Meg a new experience,
the deepest and tenderest of a woman's life.

Laurie came sneaking into the kitchen of the Dovecote one
Saturday, with an excited face, and was received with the clash of
cymbals, for Hannah clapped her hands with a saucepan in one and
the cover in the other.

"How's the little mamma? Where is everybody? Why didn't you tell
me before I came home?" began Laurie in a loud whisper.

"Happy as a queen, the dear! Every soul of 'em is upstairs a
worshipin'. We didn't want no hurrycanes round. Now you go into the
parlor, and I'll send 'em down to you," with which somewhat
involved reply Hannah vanished, chuckling ecstatically.
