"Yes, we all do, and love her for being so ready to forgive. It
must have been dreadfully hard, after working so long and setting
your heart on selling your own pretty things. I don't believe I
could have done it as kindly as you did," added Beth from her
pillow.

"Why, girls, you needn't praise me so. I only did as I'd be done
by. You laugh at me when I say I want to be a lady, but I mean a
true gentlewoman in mind and manners, and I try to do it as far as
I know how. I can't explain exactly, but I want to be above the
little meannesses and follies and faults that spoil so many women.
I'm far from it now, but I do my best, and hope in time to be what
Mother is."

Amy spoke earnestly, and Jo said, with a cordial hug, "I
understand now what you mean, and I'll never laugh at you again.
You are getting on faster than you think, and I'll take lessons of
you in true politeness, for you've learned the secret, I believe.
Try away, deary, you'll get your reward some day, and no one will
be more delighted than I shall."

A week later Amy did get her reward, and poor Jo found it hard
to be delighted. A letter came from Aunt Carrol, and Mrs. March's
face was illuminated to such a degree when she read it that Jo and
Beth, who were with her, demanded what the glad tidings were.

"Aunt Carrol is going abroad next month, and wants… "

"Me to go with her!" burst in Jo, flying out of her chair in an
uncontrollable rapture.

"No, dear, not you. It's Amy."

"Oh, Mother! She's too young, it's my turn first. I've wanted it
so long. It would do me so much good, and be so altogether
splendid. I must go!"

"I'm afraid it's impossible, Jo. Aunt says Amy, decidedly, and
it is not for us to dictate when she offers such a favor."

"It's always so. Amy has all the fun and I have all the work. It
isn't fair, oh, it isn't fair!" cried Jo passionately.

"I'm afraid it's partly your own fault, dear. When Aunt spoke to
me the other day, she regretted your blunt manners and too
independent spirit, and here she writes, as if quoting something
you had said—'I planned at first to ask Jo, but as 'favors burden
her', and she 'hates French', I think I won't venture to invite
her. Amy is more docile, will make a good companion for Flo, and
receive gratefully any help the trip may give her."
