
"Now, then, mum?"

I gave my order as soberly as I could, and
slamming down the door, with an "Aye, aye, mum," the man made his
horse walk, as if going to a funeral. I poked again and said, "A
little faster," then off he went, helter-skelter as before, and we
resigned ourselves to our fate.

Today was fair, and we went to Hyde Park, close
by, for we are more aristocratic than we look. The Duke of
Devonshire lives near. I often see his footmen lounging at the back
gate, and the Duke of Wellington's house is not far off. Such
sights as I saw, my dear! It was as good as Punch, for there were
fat dowagers rolling about in their red and yellow coaches, with
gorgeous Jeameses in silk stockings and velvet coats, up behind,
and powdered coachmen in front. Smart maids, with the rosiest
children I ever saw, handsome girls, looking half asleep, dandies
in queer English hats and lavender kids lounging about, and tall
soldiers, in short red jackets and muffin caps stuck on one side,
looking so funny I longed to sketch them.

Rotten Row means 'Route de Roi', or the king's
way, but now it's more like a riding school than anything else. The
horses are splendid, and the men, especially the grooms, ride well,
but the women are stiff, and bounce, which isn't according to our
rules. I longed to show them a tearing American gallop, for they
trotted solemnly up and down, in their scant habits and high hats,
looking like the women in a toy Noah's Ark. Everyone rides—old men,
stout ladies, little children—and the young folks do a deal of
flirting here, I saw a pair exchange rose buds, for it's the thing
to wear one in the button-hole, and I thought it rather a nice
little idea.

In the P.M. to Westminster Abbey, but don't
expect me to describe it, that's impossible, so I'll only say it
was sublime! This evening we are going to see Fechter, which will
be an appropriate end to the happiest day of my life.

It's very late, but I can't let my letter go in
the morning without telling you what happened last evening. Who do
you think came in, as we were at tea? Laurie's English friends,
Fred and Frank Vaughn! I was so surprised, for I shouldn't have
known them but for the cards. Both are tall fellows with whiskers,
Fred handsome in the English style, and Frank much better, for he
only limps slightly, and uses no crutches. They had heard from
Laurie where we were to be, and came to ask us to their house, but
Uncle won't go, so we shall return the call, and see them as we
can. They went to the theater with us, and we did have such a good
time, for Frank devoted himself to Flo, and Fred and I talked over
past, present, and future fun as if we had known each other all our
days. Tell Beth Frank asked for her, and was sorry to hear of her
ill health. Fred laughed when I spoke of Jo, and sent his
'respectful compliments to the big hat'. Neither of them had
forgotten Camp Laurence, or the fun we had there. What ages ago it
seems, doesn't it?

Aunt is tapping on the wall for the third time,
so I must stop. I really feel like a dissipated London fine lady,
writing here so late, with my room full of pretty things, and my
head a jumble of parks, theaters, new gowns, and gallant creatures
who say "Ah!" and twirl their blond mustaches with the true English
lordliness. I long to see you all, and in spite of my nonsense am,
as ever, your loving…

AMY

&#160;

PARIS

