Dear girls,

In my last I told you about our London visit, how
kind the Vaughns were, and what pleasant parties they made for us.
I enjoyed the trips to Hampton Court and the Kensington Museum more
than anything else, for at Hampton I saw Raphael's cartoons, and at
the Museum, rooms full of pictures by Turner, Lawrence, Reynolds,
Hogarth, and the other great creatures. The day in Richmond Park
was charming, for we had a regular English picnic, and I had more
splendid oaks and groups of deer than I could copy, also heard a
nightingale, and saw larks go up. We 'did' London to our heart's
content, thanks to Fred and Frank, and were sorry to go away, for
though English people are slow to take you in, when they once make
up their minds to do it they cannot be outdone in hospitality, I
think. The Vaughns hope to meet us in Rome next winter, and I shall
be dreadfully disappointed if they don't, for Grace and I are great
friends, and the boys very nice fellows, especially Fred.

Well, we were hardly settled here, when he turned
up again, saying he had come for a holiday, and was going to
Switzerland. Aunt looked sober at first, but he was so cool about
it she couldn't say a word. And now we get on nicely, and are very
glad he came, for he speaks French like a native, and I don't know
what we should do without him. Uncle doesn't know ten words, and
insists on talking English very loud, as if it would make people
understand him. Aunt's pronunciation is old-fashioned, and Flo and
I, though we flattered ourselves that we knew a good deal, find we
don't, and are very grateful to have Fred do the '
parley
vooing
', as Uncle calls it.

Such delightful times as we are having!
Sight-seeing from morning till night, stopping for nice lunches in
the gay&#160;
cafes
, and meeting with all sorts of droll
adventures. Rainy days I spend in the Louvre, revelling in
pictures. Jo would turn up her naughty nose at some of the finest,
because she has no soul for art, but I have, and I'm cultivating
eye and taste as fast as I can. She would like the relics of great
people better, for I've seen her Napoleon's cocked hat and gray
coat, his baby's cradle and his old toothbrush, also Marie
Antoinette's little shoe, the ring of Saint Denis, Charlemagne's
sword, and many other interesting things. I'll talk for hours about
them when I come, but haven't time to write.

The Palais Royale is a heavenly place, so full
of&#160;
bijouterie
&#160;and lovely things that I'm nearly
distracted because I can't buy them. Fred wanted to get me some,
but of course I didn't allow it. Then the Bois and Champs Elysees
are&#160;
tres magnifique
. I've seen the imperial family
several times, the emperor an ugly, hard-looking man, the empress
pale and pretty, but dressed in bad taste, I thought—purple dress,
green hat, and yellow gloves. Little Nap is a handsome boy, who
sits chatting to his tutor, and kisses his hand to the people as he
passes in his four-horse barouche, with postilions in red satin
jackets and a mounted guard before and behind.

We often walk in the Tuileries Gardens, for they
are lovely, though the antique Luxembourg Gardens suit me better.
Pere la Chaise is very curious, for many of the tombs are like
small rooms, and looking in, one sees a table, with images or
pictures of the dead, and chairs for the mourners to sit in when
they come to lament. That is so Frenchy.

Our rooms are on the Rue de Rivoli, and sitting
on the balcony, we look up and down the long, brilliant street. It
is so pleasant that we spend our evenings talking there when too
tired with our day's work to go out. Fred is very entertaining, and
is altogether the most agreeable young man I ever knew—except
Laurie, whose manners are more charming. I wish Fred was dark, for
I don't fancy light men, however, the Vaughns are very rich and
come of an excellent family, so I won't find fault with their
yellow hair, as my own is yellower.
