
Mrs. March glanced at Jo as she spoke, but the face opposite
seemed quite unconscious of any secret disquietude but Beth's, and
after sewing thoughtfully for a minute, Jo said, "I think she is
growing up, and so begins to dream dreams, and have hopes and fears
and fidgets, without knowing why or being able to explain them.
Why, Mother, Beth's eighteen, but we don't realize it, and treat
her like a child, forgetting she's a woman."

"So she is. Dear heart, how fast you do grow up," returned her
mother with a sigh and a smile.

"Can't be helped, Marmee, so you must resign yourself to all
sorts of worries, and let your birds hop out of the nest, one by
one. I promise never to hop very far, if that is any comfort to
you."

"It's a great comfort, Jo. I always feel strong when you are at
home, now Meg is gone. Beth is too feeble and Amy too young to
depend upon, but when the tug comes, you are always ready."

"Why, you know I don't mind hard jobs much, and there must
always be one scrub in a family. Amy is splendid in fine works and
I'm not, but I feel in my element when all the carpets are to be
taken up, or half the family fall sick at once. Amy is
distinguishing herself abroad, but if anything is amiss at home,
I'm your man."

"I leave Beth to your hands, then, for she will open her tender
little heart to her Jo sooner than to anyone else. Be very kind,
and don't let her think anyone watches or talks about her. If she
only would get quite strong and cheerful again, I shouldn't have a
wish in the world."

"Happy woman! I've got heaps."

"My dear, what are they?"

"I'll settle Bethy's troubles, and then I'll tell you mine. They
are not very wearing, so they'll keep." and Jo stitched away, with
a wise nod which set her mother's heart at rest about her for the
present at least.

While apparently absorbed in her own affairs, Jo watched Beth,
and after many conflicting conjectures, finally settled upon one
which seemed to explain the change in her. A slight incident gave
Jo the clue to the mystery, she thought, and lively fancy, loving
heart did the rest. She was affecting to write busily one Saturday
afternoon, when she and Beth were alone together. Yet as she
scribbled, she kept her eye on her sister, who seemed unusually
quiet. Sitting at the window, Beth's work often dropped into her
lap, and she leaned her head upon her hand, in a dejected attitude,
while her eyes rested on the dull, autumnal landscape. Suddenly
some one passed below, whistling like an operatic blackbird, and a
voice called out, "All serene! Coming in tonight."

