Beth started, leaned forward, smiled and nodded, watched the
passer-by till his quick tramp died away, then said softly as if to
herself, "How strong and well and happy that dear boy looks."

"Hum!" said Jo, still intent upon her sister's face, for the
bright color faded as quickly as it came, the smile vanished, and
presently a tear lay shining on the window ledge. Beth whisked it
off, and in her half-averted face read a tender sorrow that made
her own eyes fill. Fearing to betray herself, she slipped away,
murmuring something about needing more paper.

"Mercy on me, Beth loves Laurie!" she said, sitting down in her
own room, pale with the shock of the discovery which she believed
she had just made. "I never dreamed of such a thing. What will
Mother say? I wonder if her… " there Jo stopped and turned scarlet
with a sudden thought. "If he shouldn't love back again, how
dreadful it would be. He must. I'll make him!" and she shook her
head threateningly at the picture of the mischievous-looking boy
laughing at her from the wall. "Oh dear, we are growing up with a
vengeance. Here's Meg married and a mamma, Amy flourishing away at
Paris, and Beth in love. I'm the only one that has sense enough to
keep out of mischief." Jo thought intently for a minute with her
eyes fixed on the picture, then she smoothed out her wrinkled
forehead and said, with a decided nod at the face opposite, "No
thank you, sir, you're very charming, but you've no more stability
than a weathercock. So you needn't write touching notes and smile
in that insinuating way, for it won't do a bit of good, and I won't
have it."

Then she sighed, and fell into a reverie from which she did not
wake till the early twilight sent her down to take new
observations, which only confirmed her suspicion. Though Laurie
flirted with Amy and joked with Jo, his manner to Beth had always
been peculiarly kind and gentle, but so was everybody's. Therefore,
no one thought of imagining that he cared more for her than for the
others. Indeed, a general impression had prevailed in the family of
late that 'our boy' was getting fonder than ever of Jo, who,
however, wouldn't hear a word upon the subject and scolded
violently if anyone dared to suggest it. If they had known the
various tender passages which had been nipped in the bud, they
would have had the immense satisfaction of saying, "I told you so."
But Jo hated 'philandering', and wouldn't allow it, always having a
joke or a smile ready at the least sign of impending danger.

When Laurie first went to college, he fell in love about once a
month, but these small flames were as brief as ardent, did no
damage, and much amused Jo, who took great interest in the
alternations of hope, despair, and resignation, which were confided
to her in their weekly conferences. But there came a time when
Laurie ceased to worship at many shrines, hinted darkly at one
all-absorbing passion, and indulged occasionally in Byronic fits of
gloom. Then he avoided the tender subject altogether, wrote
philosophical notes to Jo, turned studious, and gave out that he
was going to 'dig', intending to graduate in a blaze of glory. This
suited the young lady better than twilight confidences, tender
pressures of the hand, and eloquent glances of the eye, for with
Jo, brain developed earlier than heart, and she preferred imaginary
heroes to real ones, because when tired of them, the former could
be shut up in the tin kitchen till called for, and the latter were
less manageable.

Things were in this state when the grand discovery was made, and
Jo watched Laurie that night as she had never done before. If she
had not got the new idea into her head, she would have seen nothing
unusual in the fact that Beth was very quiet, and Laurie very kind
to her. But having given the rein to her lively fancy, it galloped
away with her at a great pace, and common sense, being rather
weakened by a long course of romance writing, did not come to the
rescue. As usual Beth lay on the sofa and Laurie sat in a low chair
close by, amusing her with all sorts of gossip, for she depended on
her weekly 'spin', and he never disappointed her. But that evening
Jo fancied that Beth's eyes rested on the lively, dark face beside
her with peculiar pleasure, and that she listened with intense
interest to an account of some exciting cricket match, though the
phrases, 'caught off a tice', 'stumped off his ground', and 'the
leg hit for three', were as intelligible to her as Sanskrit. She
also fancied, having set her heart upon seeing it, that she saw a
certain increase of gentleness in Laurie's manner, that he dropped
his voice now and then, laughed less than usual, was a little
absent-minded, and settled the afghan over Beth's feet with an
assiduity that was really almost tender.

"Who knows? Stranger things have happened," thought Jo, as she
fussed about the room. "She will make quite an angel of him, and he
will make life delightfully easy and pleasant for the dear, if they
only love each other. I don't see how he can help it, and I do
believe he would if the rest of us were out of the way."

As everyone was out of the way but herself, Jo began to feel
that she ought to dispose of herself with all speed. But where
should she go? And burning to lay herself upon the shrine of
sisterly devotion, she sat down to settle that point.

Now, the old sofa was a regular patriarch of a sofa—long, broad,
well-cushioned, and low, a trifle shabby, as well it might be, for
the girls had slept and sprawled on it as babies, fished over the
back, rode on the arms, and had menageries under it as children,
and rested tired heads, dreamed dreams, and listened to tender talk
on it as young women. They all loved it, for it was a family
refuge, and one corner had always been Jo's favorite lounging
place. Among the many pillows that adorned the venerable couch was
one, hard, round, covered with prickly horsehair, and furnished
with a knobby button at each end. This repulsive pillow was her
especial property, being used as a weapon of defense, a barricade,
or a stern preventive of too much slumber.

Laurie knew this pillow well, and had cause to regard it with
deep aversion, having been unmercifully pummeled with it in former
days when romping was allowed, and now frequently debarred by it
from the seat he most coveted next to Jo in the sofa corner. If
'the sausage' as they called it, stood on end, it was a sign that
he might approach and repose, but if it lay flat across the sofa,
woe to man, woman, or child who dared disturb it! That evening Jo
forgot to barricade her corner, and had not been in her seat five
minutes, before a massive form appeared beside her, and with both
arms spread over the sofa back, both long legs stretched out before
him, Laurie exclaimed, with a sigh of satisfaction…

"Now, this is filling at the price."
