"I'm glad of that, Jo."

"Why, please?"

"Because, dear, I don't think you suited to one another. As
friends you are very happy, and your frequent quarrels soon blow
over, but I fear you would both rebel if you were mated for life.
You are too much alike and too fond of freedom, not to mention hot
tempers and strong wills, to get on happily together, in a relation
which needs infinite patience and forbearance, as well as
love."

"That's just the feeling I had, though I couldn't express it.
I'm glad you think he is only beginning to care for me. It would
trouble me sadly to make him unhappy, for I couldn't fall in love
with the dear old fellow merely out of gratitude, could I?"

"You are sure of his feeling for you?"

The color deepened in Jo's cheeks as she answered, with the look
of mingled pleasure, pride, and pain which young girls wear when
speaking of first lovers, "I'm afraid it is so, Mother. He hasn't
said anything, but he looks a great deal. I think I had better go
away before it comes to anything."

"I agree with you, and if it can be managed you shall go."

Jo looked relieved, and after a pause, said, smiling, "How Mrs.
Moffat would wonder at your want of management, if she knew, and
how she will rejoice that Annie may still hope."

"Ah, Jo, mothers may differ in their management, but the hope is
the same in all—the desire to see their children happy. Meg is so,
and I am content with her success. You I leave to enjoy your
liberty till you tire of it, for only then will you find that there
is something sweeter. Amy is my chief care now, but her good sense
will help her. For Beth, I indulge no hopes except that she may be
well. By the way, she seems brighter this last day or two. Have you
spoken to her?'

"Yes, she owned she had a trouble, and promised to tell me
by-and-by. I said no more, for I think I know it," and Jo told her
little story.

Mrs. March shook her head, and did not take so romantic a view
of the case, but looked grave, and repeated her opinion that for
Laurie's sake Jo should go away for a time.
