"Now, my dear, make yourself at home," said Mrs.
K. in her motherly way, "I'm on the drive from morning to night, as
you may suppose with such a family, but a great anxiety will be off
my mind if I know the children are safe with you. My rooms are
always open to you, and your own shall be as comfortable as I can
make it. There are some pleasant people in the house if you feel
sociable, and your evenings are always free. Come to me if anything
goes wrong, and be as happy as you can. There's the tea bell, I
must run and change my cap." And off she bustled, leaving me to
settle myself in my new nest.

As I went downstairs soon after, I saw something
I liked. The flights are very long in this tall house, and as I
stood waiting at the head of the third one for a little servant
girl to lumber up, I saw a gentleman come along behind her, take
the heavy hod of coal out of her hand, carry it all the way up, put
it down at a door near by, and walk away, saying, with a kind nod
and a foreign accent, "It goes better so. The little back is too
young to haf such heaviness."

Wasn't it good of him? I like such things, for as
Father says, trifles show character. When I mentioned it to Mrs.
K., that evening, she laughed, and said, "That must have been
Professor Bhaer, he's always doing things of that sort."

Mrs. K. told me he was from Berlin, very learned
and good, but poor as a church mouse, and gives lessons to support
himself and two little orphan nephews whom he is educating here,
according to the wishes of his sister, who married an American. Not
a very romantic story, but it interested me, and I was glad to hear
that Mrs. K. lends him her parlor for some of his scholars. There
is a glass door between it and the nursery, and I mean to peep at
him, and then I'll tell you how he looks. He's almost forty, so
it's no harm, Marmee.

After tea and a go-to-bed romp with the little
girls, I attacked the big workbasket, and had a quiet evening
chatting with my new friend. I shall keep a journal-letter, and
send it once a week, so goodnight, and more tomorrow.

Tuesday Eve

Had a lively time in my seminary this morning,
for the children acted like Sancho, and at one time I really
thought I should shake them all round. Some good angel inspired me
to try gymnastics, and I kept it up till they were glad to sit down
and keep still. After luncheon, the girl took them out for a walk,
and I went to my needlework like little Mabel 'with a willing
mind'. I was thanking my stars that I'd learned to make nice
buttonholes, when the parlor door opened and shut, and someone
began to hum, Kennst Du Das Land, like a big bumblebee. It was
dreadfully improper, I know, but I couldn't resist the temptation,
and lifting one end of the curtain before the glass door, I peeped
in. Professor Bhaer was there, and while he arranged his books, I
took a good look at him. A regular German—rather stout, with brown
hair tumbled all over his head, a bushy beard, good nose, the
kindest eyes I ever saw, and a splendid big voice that does one's
ears good, after our sharp or slipshod American gabble. His clothes
were rusty, his hands were large, and he hadn't a really handsome
feature in his face, except his beautiful teeth, yet I liked him,
for he had a fine head, his linen was very nice, and he looked like
a gentleman, though two buttons were off his coat and there was a
patch on one shoe. He looked sober in spite of his humming, till he
went to the window to turn the hyacinth bulbs toward the sun, and
stroke the cat, who received him like an old friend. Then he
smiled, and when a tap came at the door, called out in a loud,
brisk tone, "Herein!"

I was just going to run, when I caught sight of a
morsel of a child carrying a big book, and stopped, to see what was
going on.

"Me wants me Bhaer," said the mite, slamming down
her book and running to meet him.

"Thou shalt haf thy Bhaer. Come, then, and take a
goot hug from him, my Tina," said the Professor, catching her up
with a laugh, and holding her so high over his head that she had to
stoop her little face to kiss him.

"Now me mus tuddy my lessin," went on the funny
little thing. So he put her up at the table, opened the great
dictionary she had brought, and gave her a paper and pencil, and
she scribbled away, turning a leaf now and then, and passing her
little fat finger down the page, as if finding a word, so soberly
that I nearly betrayed myself by a laugh, while Mr. Bhaer stood
stroking her pretty hair with a fatherly look that made me think
she must be his own, though she looked more French than German.
