
Another knock and the appearance of two young
ladies sent me back to my work, and there I virtuously remained
through all the noise and gabbling that went on next door. One of
the girls kept laughing affectedly, and saying, "Now Professor," in
a coquettish tone, and the other pronounced her German with an
accent that must have made it hard for him to keep sober.

Both seemed to try his patience sorely, for more
than once I heard him say emphatically, "No, no, it is not so, you
haf not attend to what I say," and once there was a loud rap, as if
he struck the table with his book, followed by the despairing
exclamation, "Prut! It all goes bad this day."

Poor man, I pitied him, and when the girls were
gone, took just one more peep to see if he survived it. He seemed
to have thrown himself back in his chair, tired out, and sat there
with his eyes shut till the clock struck two, when he jumped up,
put his books in his pocket, as if ready for another lesson, and
taking little Tina who had fallen asleep on the sofa in his arms,
he carried her quietly away. I fancy he has a hard life of it. Mrs.
Kirke asked me if I wouldn't go down to the five o'clock dinner,
and feeling a little bit homesick, I thought I would, just to see
what sort of people are under the same roof with me. So I made
myself respectable and tried to slip in behind Mrs. Kirke, but as
she is short and I'm tall, my efforts at concealment were rather a
failure. She gave me a seat by her, and after my face cooled off, I
plucked up courage and looked about me. The long table was full,
and every one intent on getting their dinner, the gentlemen
especially, who seemed to be eating on time, for they bolted in
every sense of the word, vanishing as soon as they were done. There
was the usual assortment of young men absorbed in themselves, young
couples absorbed in each other, married ladies in their babies, and
old gentlemen in politics. I don't think I shall care to have much
to do with any of them, except one sweetfaced maiden lady, who
looks as if she had something in her.

Cast away at the very bottom of the table was the
Professor, shouting answers to the questions of a very inquisitive,
deaf old gentleman on one side, and talking philosophy with a
Frenchman on the other. If Amy had been here, she'd have turned her
back on him forever because, sad to relate, he had a great
appetite, and shoveled in his dinner in a manner which would have
horrified 'her ladyship'. I didn't mind, for I like 'to see folks
eat with a relish', as Hannah says, and the poor man must have
needed a deal of food after teaching idiots all day.

As I went upstairs after dinner, two of the young
men were settling their hats before the hall mirror, and I heard
one say low to the other, "Who's the new party?"

"Governess, or something of that sort."

"What the deuce is she at our table for?"

"Friend of the old lady's."

"Handsome head, but no style."

"Not a bit of it. Give us a light and come
on."

