
"So!" he said, as I stopped and stared like a
goose, "you peep at me, I peep at you, and this is not bad, but
see, I am not pleasanting when I say, haf you a wish for
German?"

"Yes, but you are too busy. I am too stupid to
learn," I blundered out, as red as a peony.

"Prut! We will make the time, and we fail not to
find the sense. At efening I shall gif a little lesson with much
gladness, for look you, Mees Marsch, I haf this debt to pay." And
he pointed to my work 'Yes,' they say to one another, these so kind
ladies, 'he is a stupid old fellow, he will see not what we do, he
will never observe that his sock heels go not in holes any more, he
will think his buttons grow out new when they fall, and believe
that strings make theirselves.' "Ah! But I haf an eye, and I see
much. I haf a heart, and I feel thanks for this. Come, a little
lesson then and now, or—no more good fairy works for me and
mine."

Of course I couldn't say anything after that, and
as it really is a splendid opportunity, I made the bargain, and we
began. I took four lessons, and then I stuck fast in a grammatical
bog. The Professor was very patient with me, but it must have been
torment to him, and now and then he'd look at me with such an
expression of mild despair that it was a toss-up with me whether to
laugh or cry. I tried both ways, and when it came to a sniff or
utter mortification and woe, he just threw the grammar on to the
floor and marched out of the room. I felt myself disgraced and
deserted forever, but didn't blame him a particle, and was
scrambling my papers together, meaning to rush upstairs and shake
myself hard, when in he came, as brisk and beaming as if I'd
covered myself in glory.

"Now we shall try a new way. You and I will read
these pleasant little&#160;
marchen
&#160;together, and dig
no more in that dry book, that goes in the corner for making us
trouble."

He spoke so kindly, and opened Hans Andersons's
fairy tales so invitingly before me, that I was more ashamed than
ever, and went at my lesson in a neck-or-nothing style that seemed
to amuse him immensely. I forgot my bashfulness, and pegged away
(no other word will express it) with all my might, tumbling over
long words, pronouncing according to inspiration of the minute, and
doing my very best. When I finished reading my first page, and
stopped for breath, he clapped his hands and cried out in his
hearty way, "Das ist gut! Now we go well! My turn. I do him in
German, gif me your ear." And away he went, rumbling out the words
with his strong voice and a relish which was good to see as well as
hear. Fortunately the story was&#160;
The Constant Tin
Soldier
, which is droll, you know, so I could laugh, and I
did, though I didn't understand half he read, for I couldn't help
it, he was so earnest, I so excited, and the whole thing so
comical.

After that we got on better, and now I read my
lessons pretty well, for this way of studying suits me, and I can
see that the grammar gets tucked into the tales and poetry as one
gives pills in jelly. I like it very much, and he doesn't seem
tired of it yet, which is very good of him, isn't it? I mean to
give him something on Christmas, for I dare not offer money. Tell
me something nice, Marmee.

I'm glad Laurie seems so happy and busy, that he
has given up smoking and lets his hair grow. You see Beth manages
him better than I did. I'm not jealous, dear, do your best, only
don't make a saint of him. I'm afraid I couldn't like him without a
spice of human naughtiness. Read him bits of my letters. I haven't
time to write much, and that will do just as well. Thank Heaven
Beth continues so comfortable.

