"I thought so. It was like you, but it was no use. I only loved
you all the more, and I worked hard to please you, and I gave up
billiards and everything you didn't like, and waited and never
complained, for I hoped you'd love me, though I'm not half good
enough… " Here there was a choke that couldn't be controlled, so he
decapitated buttercups while he cleared his 'confounded
throat'.

"You, you are, you're a great deal too good for me, and I'm so
grateful to you, and so proud and fond of you, I don't know why I
can't love you as you want me to. I've tried, but I can't change
the feeling, and it would be a lie to say I do when I don't."

"Really, truly, Jo?"

He stopped short, and caught both her hands as he put his
question with a look that she did not soon forget.

"Really, truly, dear."

They were in the grove now, close by the stile, and when the
last words fell reluctantly from Jo's lips, Laurie dropped her
hands and turned as if to go on, but for once in his life the fence
was too much for him. So he just laid his head down on the mossy
post, and stood so still that Jo was frightened.

"Oh, Teddy, I'm sorry, so desperately sorry, I could kill myself
if it would do any good! I wish you wouldn't take it so hard, I
can't help it. You know it's impossible for people to make
themselves love other people if they don't," cried Jo inelegantly
but remorsefully, as she softly patted his shoulder, remembering
the time when he had comforted her so long ago.

"They do sometimes," said a muffled voice from the post. "I
don't believe it's the right sort of love, and I'd rather not try
it," was the decided answer.

There was a long pause, while a blackbird sung blithely on the
willow by the river, and the tall grass rustled in the wind.
Presently Jo said very soberly, as she sat down on the step of the
stile, "Laurie, I want to tell you something."

He started as if he had been shot, threw up his head, and cried
out in a fierce tone, "Don't tell me that, Jo, I can't bear it
now!"

"Tell what?" she asked, wondering at his violence.
