"No, I can't. I've tried and failed, and I won't risk our
happiness by such a serious experiment. We don't agree and we never
shall, so we'll be good friends all our lives, but we won't go and
do anything rash."

"Yes, we will if we get the chance," muttered Laurie
rebelliously.

"Now do be reasonable, and take a sensible view of the case,"
implored Jo, almost at her wit's end.

"I won't be reasonable. I don't want to take what you call 'a
sensible view'. It won't help me, and it only makes it harder. I
don't believe you've got any heart."

"I wish I hadn't."

There was a little quiver in Jo's voice, and thinking it a good
omen, Laurie turned round, bringing all his persuasive powers to
bear as he said, in the wheedlesome tone that had never been so
dangerously wheedlesome before, "Don't disappoint us, dear!
Everyone expects it. Grandpa has set his heart upon it, your people
like it, and I can't get on without you. Say you will, and let's be
happy. Do, do!"

Not until months afterward did Jo understand how she had the
strength of mind to hold fast to the resolution she had made when
she decided that she did not love her boy, and never could. It was
very hard to do, but she did it, knowing that delay was both
useless and cruel.

"I can't say 'yes' truly, so I won't say it at all. You'll see
that I'm right, by-and-by, and thank me for it… " she began
solemnly.

"I'll be hanged if I do!" and Laurie bounced up off the grass,
burning with indignation at the very idea.

"Yes, you will!" persisted Jo. "You'll get over this after a
while, and find some lovely accomplished girl, who will adore you,
and make a fine mistress for your fine house. I shouldn't. I'm
homely and awkward and odd and old, and you'd be ashamed of me, and
we should quarrel—we can't help it even now, you see—and I
shouldn't like elegant society and you would, and you'd hate my
scribbling, and I couldn't get on without it, and we should be
unhappy, and wish we hadn't done it, and everything would be
horrid!"

"Anything more?" asked Laurie, finding it hard to listen
patiently to this prophetic burst.
