So Meg reclined, with rubbers well hidden, and Jo went
blundering away to the dining room, which she found after going
into a china closet, and opening the door of a room where old Mr.
Gardiner was taking a little private refreshment. Making a dart at
the table, she secured the coffee, which she immediately spilled,
thereby making the front of her dress as bad as the back.

"Oh, dear, what a blunderbuss I am!" exclaimed Jo, finishing
Meg's glove by scrubbing her gown with it.

"Can I help you?" said a friendly voice. And there was Laurie,
with a full cup in one hand and a plate of ice in the other.

"I was trying to get something for Meg, who is very tired, and
someone shook me, and here I am in a nice state," answered Jo,
glancing dismally from the stained skirt to the coffee-colored
glove.

"Too bad! I was looking for someone to give this to. May I take
it to your sister?"

"Oh, thank you! I'll show you where she is. I don't offer to
take it myself, for I should only get into another scrape if I
did."

Jo led the way, and as if used to waiting on ladies, Laurie drew
up a little table, brought a second installment of coffee and ice
for Jo, and was so obliging that even particular Meg pronounced him
a 'nice boy'. They had a merry time over the bonbons and mottoes,
and were in the midst of a quiet game of&#160;
Buzz
, with
two or three other young people who had strayed in, when Hannah
appeared. Meg forgot her foot and rose so quickly that she was
forced to catch hold of Jo, with an exclamation of pain.

"Hush! Don't say anything," she whispered, adding aloud, "It's
nothing. I turned my foot a little, that's all," and limped
upstairs to put her things on.

Hannah scolded, Meg cried, and Jo was at her wits' end, till she
decided to take things into her own hands. Slipping out, she ran
down and, finding a servant, asked if he could get her a carriage.
It happened to be a hired waiter who knew nothing about the
neighborhood and Jo was looking round for help when Laurie, who had
heard what she said, came up and offered his grandfather's
carriage, which had just come for him, he said.

"It's so early! You can't mean to go yet?" began Jo, looking
relieved but hesitating to accept the offer.
