


Chapter

14
New Impressions


At three o'clock in the afternoon, all the fashionable world at
Nice may be seen on the Promenade des Anglais—a charming place, for
the wide walk, bordered with palms, flowers, and tropical shrubs,
is bounded on one side by the sea, on the other by the grand drive,
lined with hotels and villas, while beyond lie orange orchards and
the hills. Many nations are represented, many languages spoken,
many costumes worn, and on a sunny day the spectacle is as gay and
brilliant as a carnival. Haughty English, lively French, sober
Germans, handsome Spaniards, ugly Russians, meek Jews,
free-and-easy Americans, all drive, sit, or saunter here, chatting
over the news, and criticizing the latest celebrity who has
arrived—Ristori or Dickens, Victor Emmanuel or the Queen of the
Sandwich Islands. The equipages are as varied as the company and
attract as much attention, especially the low basket barouches in
which ladies drive themselves, with a pair of dashing ponies, gay
nets to keep their voluminous flounces from overflowing the
diminutive vehicles, and little grooms on the perch behind.

Along this walk, on Christmas Day, a tall young man walked
slowly, with his hands behind him, and a somewhat absent expression
of countenance. He looked like an Italian, was dressed like an
Englishman, and had the independent air of an American—a
combination which caused sundry pairs of feminine eyes to look
approvingly after him, and sundry dandies in black velvet suits,
with rose-colored neckties, buff gloves, and orange flowers in
their buttonholes, to shrug their shoulders, and then envy him his
inches. There were plenty of pretty faces to admire, but the young
man took little notice of them, except to glance now and then at
some blonde girl in blue. Presently he strolled out of the
promenade and stood a moment at the crossing, as if undecided
whether to go and listen to the band in the Jardin Publique, or to
wander along the beach toward Castle Hill. The quick trot of
ponies' feet made him look up, as one of the little carriages,
containing a single young lady, came rapidly down the street. The
lady was young, blonde, and dressed in blue. He stared a minute,
then his whole face woke up, and, waving his hat like a boy, he
hurried forward to meet her.

"Oh, Laurie, is it really you? I thought you'd never come!"
cried Amy, dropping the reins and holding out both hands, to the
great scandalization of a French mamma, who hastened her daughter's
steps, lest she should be demoralized by beholding the free manners
of these 'mad English'.

"I was detained by the way, but I promised to spend Christmas
with you, and here I am."

"How is your grandfather? When did you come? Where are you
staying?"

"Very well—last night—at the Chauvain. I called at your hotel,
but you were out."

"I have so much to say, I don't know where to begin! Get in and
we can talk at our ease. I was going for a drive and longing for
company. Flo's saving up for tonight."
