
Laurie did not read all this while he watched her feed the
peacocks, but he saw enough to satisfy and interest him, and
carried away a pretty little picture of a bright-faced girl
standing in the sunshine, which brought out the soft hue of her
dress, the fresh color of her cheeks, the golden gloss of her hair,
and made her a prominent figure in the pleasant scene.

As they came up onto the stone plateau that crowns the hill, Amy
waved her hand as if welcoming him to her favorite haunt, and said,
pointing here and there, "Do you remember the Cathedral and the
Corso, the fishermen dragging their nets in the bay, and the lovely
road to Villa Franca, Schubert's Tower, just below, and best of
all, that speck far out to sea which they say is Corsica?"

"I remember. It's not much changed," he answered without
enthusiasm.

"What Jo would give for a sight of that famous speck!" said Amy,
feeling in good spirits and anxious to see him so also.

"Yes," was all he said, but he turned and strained his eyes to
see the island which a greater usurper than even Napoleon now made
interesting in his sight.

"Take a good look at it for her sake, and then come and tell me
what you have been doing with yourself all this while," said Amy,
seating herself, ready for a good talk.

But she did not get it, for though he joined her and answered
all her questions freely, she could only learn that he had roved
about the Continent and been to Greece. So after idling away an
hour, they drove home again, and having paid his respects to Mrs.
Carrol, Laurie left them, promising to return in the evening.

It must be recorded of Amy that she deliberately prinked that
night. Time and absence had done its work on both the young people.
She had seen her old friend in a new light, not as 'our boy', but
as a handsome and agreeable man, and she was conscious of a very
natural desire to find favor in his sight. Amy knew her good
points, and made the most of them with the taste and skill which is
a fortune to a poor and pretty woman.

Tarlatan and tulle were cheap at Nice, so she enveloped herself
in them on such occasions, and following the sensible English
fashion of simple dress for young girls, got up charming little
toilettes with fresh flowers, a few trinkets, and all manner of
dainty devices, which were both inexpensive and effective. It must
be confessed that the artist sometimes got possession of the woman,
and indulged in antique coiffures, statuesque attitudes, and
classic draperies. But, dear heart, we all have our little
weaknesses, and find it easy to pardon such in the young, who
satisfy our eyes with their comeliness, and keep our hearts merry
with their artless vanities.

"I do want him to think I look well, and tell them so at home,"
said Amy to herself, as she put on Flo's old white silk ball dress,
and covered it with a cloud of fresh illusion, out of which her
white shoulders and golden head emerged with a most artistic
effect. Her hair she had the sense to let alone, after gathering up
the thick waves and curls into a Hebe-like knot at the back of her
head.

