"It's not the fashion, but it's becoming, and I can't afford to
make a fright of myself," she used to say, when advised to frizzle,
puff, or braid, as the latest style commanded.

Having no ornaments fine enough for this important occasion, Amy
looped her fleecy skirts with rosy clusters of azalea, and framed
the white shoulders in delicate green vines. Remembering the
painted boots, she surveyed her white satin slippers with girlish
satisfaction, and chassed down the room, admiring her aristocratic
feet all by herself.

"My new fan just matches my flowers, my gloves fit to a charm,
and the real lace on Aunt's mouchoir gives an air to my whole
dress. If I only had a classical nose and mouth I should be
perfectly happy," she said, surveying herself with a critical eye
and a candle in each hand.

In spite of this affliction, she looked unusually gay and
graceful as she glided away. She seldom ran—it did not suit her
style, she thought, for being tall, the stately and Junoesque was
more appropriate than the sportive or piquante. She walked up and
down the long saloon while waiting for Laurie, and once arranged
herself under the chandelier, which had a good effect upon her
hair, then she thought better of it, and went away to the other end
of the room, as if ashamed of the girlish desire to have the first
view a propitious one. It so happened that she could not have done
a better thing, for Laurie came in so quietly she did not hear him,
and as she stood at the distant window, with her head half turned
and one hand gathering up her dress, the slender, white figure
against the red curtains was as effective as a well-placed
statue.

"Good evening, Diana!" said Laurie, with the look of
satisfaction she liked to see in his eyes when they rested on
her.

"Good evening, Apollo!" she answered, smiling back at him, for
he too looked unusually debonair, and the thought of entering the
ballroom on the arm of such a personable man caused Amy to pity the
four plain Misses Davis from the bottom of her heart.

"Here are your flowers. I arranged them myself, remembering that
you didn't like what Hannah calls a 'sot-bookay'," said Laurie,
handing her a delicate nosegay, in a holder that she had long
coveted as she daily passed it in Cardiglia's window.

"How kind you are!" she exclaimed gratefully. "If I'd known you
were coming I'd have had something ready for you today, though not
as pretty as this, I'm afraid."

"Thank you. It isn't what it should be, but you have improved
it," he added, as she snapped the silver bracelet on her wrist.

"Please don't."

"I thought you liked that sort of thing."
