
"Not from you, it doesn't sound natural, and I like your old
bluntness better."

"I'm glad of it," he answered, with a look of relief, then
buttoned her gloves for her, and asked if his tie was straight,
just as he used to do when they went to parties together at
home.

The company assembled in the long salle a manger, that evening,
was such as one sees nowhere but on the Continent. The hospitable
Americans had invited every acquaintance they had in Nice, and
having no prejudice against titles, secured a few to add luster to
their Christmas ball.

A Russian prince condescended to sit in a corner for an hour and
talk with a massive lady, dressed like Hamlet's mother in black
velvet with a pearl bridle under her chin. A Polish count, aged
eighteen, devoted himself to the ladies, who pronounced him, 'a
fascinating dear', and a German Serene Something, having come to
supper alone, roamed vaguely about, seeking what he might devour.
Baron Rothschild's private secretary, a large-nosed Jew in tight
boots, affably beamed upon the world, as if his master's name
crowned him with a golden halo. A stout Frenchman, who knew the
Emperor, came to indulge his mania for dancing, and Lady de Jones,
a British matron, adorned the scene with her little family of
eight. Of course, there were many light-footed, shrill-voiced
American girls, handsome, lifeless-looking English ditto, and a few
plain but piquante French demoiselles, likewise the usual set of
traveling young gentlemen who disported themselves gaily, while
mammas of all nations lined the walls and smiled upon them benignly
when they danced with their daughters.

Any young girl can imagine Amy's state of mind when she 'took
the stage' that night, leaning on Laurie's arm. She knew she looked
well, she loved to dance, she felt that her foot was on her native
heath in a ballroom, and enjoyed the delightful sense of power
which comes when young girls first discover the new and lovely
kingdom they are born to rule by virtue of beauty, youth, and
womanhood. She did pity the Davis girls, who were awkward, plain,
and destitute of escort, except a grim papa and three grimmer
maiden aunts, and she bowed to them in her friendliest manner as
she passed, which was good of her, as it permitted them to see her
dress, and burn with curiosity to know who her
distinguished-looking friend might be. With the first burst of the
band, Amy's color rose, her eyes began to sparkle, and her feet to
tap the floor impatiently, for she danced well and wanted Laurie to
know it. Therefore the shock she received can better be imagined
than described, when he said in a perfectly tranquil tone, "Do you
care to dance?"

"One usually does at a ball."

Her amazed look and quick answer caused Laurie to repair his
error as fast as possible.

"I meant the first dance. May I have the honor?"

"I can give you one if I put off the Count. He dances devinely,
but he will excuse me, as you are an old friend," said Amy, hoping
that the name would have a good effect, and show Laurie that she
was not to be trifled with.

"Nice little boy, but rather a short Pole to support…

