"Let me show you. Did John ever neglect you, as you call it,
while you made it a point to give him your society of an evening,
his only leisure time?"

"No, but I can't do it now, with two babies to tend."

"I think you could, dear, and I think you ought. May I speak
quite freely, and will you remember that it's Mother who blames as
well as Mother who sympathizes?"

"Indeed I will! Speak to me as if I were little Meg again. I
often feel as if I needed teaching more than ever since these
babies look to me for everything."

Meg drew her low chair beside her mother's, and with a little
interruption in either lap, the two women rocked and talked
lovingly together, feeling that the tie of motherhood made them
more one than ever.

"You have only made the mistake that most young wives
make—forgotten your duty to your husband in your love for your
children. A very natural and forgivable mistake, Meg, but one that
had better be remedied before you take to different ways, for
children should draw you nearer than ever, not separate you, as if
they were all yours, and John had nothing to do but support them.
I've seen it for some weeks, but have not spoken, feeling sure it
would come right in time."

"I'm afraid it won't. If I ask him to stay, he'll think I'm
jealous, and I wouldn't insult him by such an idea. He doesn't see
that I want him, and I don't know how to tell him without
words."

"Make it so pleasant he won't want to go away. My dear, he's
longing for his little home, but it isn't home without you, and you
are always in the nursery."

"Oughtn't I to be there?"

"Not all the time, too much confinement makes you nervous, and
then you are unfitted for everything. Besides, you owe something to
John as well as to the babies. Don't neglect husband for children,
don't shut him out of the nursery, but teach him how to help in it.
His place is there as well as yours, and the children need him. Let
him feel that he has a part to do, and he will do it gladly and
faithfully, and it will be better for you all."

"You really think so, Mother?"
