John laughed, and watched her for a minute, as she poised a
pretty little preparation of lace and flowers on her hand, and
regarded it with the genuine interest which his harangue had failed
to waken.

"She is trying to like politics for my sake, so I'll try and
like millinery for hers, that's only fair," thought John the Just,
adding aloud, "That's very pretty. Is it what you call a breakfast
cap?"

"My dear man, it's a bonnet! My very best
go-to-concert-and-theater bonnet."

"I beg your pardon, it was so small, I naturally mistook it for
one of the flyaway things you sometimes wear. How do you keep it
on?"

"These bits of lace are fastened under the chin with a rosebud,
so," and Meg illustrated by putting on the bonnet and regarding him
with an air of calm satisfaction that was irresistible.

"It's a love of a bonnet, but I prefer the face inside, for it
looks young and happy again," and John kissed the smiling face, to
the great detriment of the rosebud under the chin.

"I'm glad you like it, for I want you to take me to one of the
new concerts some night. I really need some music to put me in
tune. Will you, please?"

"Of course I will, with all my heart, or anywhere else you like.
You have been shut up so long, it will do you no end of good, and I
shall enjoy it, of all things. What put it into your head, little
mother?"

"Well, I had a talk with Marmee the other day, and told her how
nervous and cross and out of sorts I felt, and she said I needed
change and less care, so Hannah is to help me with the children,
and I'm to see to things about the house more, and now and then
have a little fun, just to keep me from getting to be a fidgety,
broken-down old woman before my time. It's only an experiment,
John, and I want to try it for your sake as much as for mine,
because I've neglected you shamefully lately, and I'm going to make
home what it used to be, if I can. You don't object, I hope?"

Never mind what John said, or what a very narrow escape the
little bonnet had from utter ruin. All that we have any business to
know is that John did not appear to object, judging from the
changes which gradually took place in the house and its inmates. It
was not all Paradise by any means, but everyone was better for the
division of labor system. The children throve under the paternal
rule, for accurate, stedfast John brought order and obedience into
Babydom, while Meg recovered her spirits and composed her nerves by
plenty of wholesome exercise, a little pleasure, and much
confidential conversation with her sensible husband. Home grew
homelike again, and John had no wish to leave it, unless he took
Meg with him. The Scotts came to the Brookes' now, and everyone
found the little house a cheerful place, full of happiness,
content, and family love. Even Sallie Moffatt liked to go there.
"It is always so quiet and pleasant here, it does me good, Meg,"
she used to say, looking about her with wistful eyes, as if trying
to discover the charm, that she might use it in her great house,
full of splendid loneliness, for there were no riotous, sunny-faced
babies there, and Ned lived in a world of his own, where there was
no place for her.

This household happiness did not come all at once, but John and
Meg had found the key to it, and each year of married life taught
them how to use it, unlocking the treasuries of real home love and
mutual helpfulness, which the poorest may possess, and the richest
cannot buy. This is the sort of shelf on which young wives and
mothers may consent to be laid, safe from the restless fret and
fever of the world, finding loyal lovers in the little sons and
daughters who cling to them, undaunted by sorrow, poverty, or age,
walking side by side, through fair and stormy weather, with a
faithful friend, who is, in the true sense of the good old Saxon
word, the 'house-band', and learning, as Meg learned, that a
woman's happiest kingdom is home, her highest honor the art of
ruling it not as a queen, but as a wise wife and mother.
