
"Am I selfish?" the question slipped out involuntarily and in a
tone of surprise, for the one virtue on which he prided himself was
generosity.

"Yes, very selfish," continued Amy, in a calm, cool voice, twice
as effective just then as an angry one. "I'll show you how, for
I've studied you while we were frolicking, and I'm not at all
satisfied with you. Here you have been abroad nearly six months,
and done nothing but waste time and money and disappoint your
friends."

"Isn't a fellow to have any pleasure after a four-year
grind?"

"You don't look as if you'd had much. At any rate, you are none
the better for it, as far as I can see. I said when we first met
that you had improved. Now I take it all back, for I don't think
you half so nice as when I left you at home. You have grown
abominably lazy, you like gossip, and waste time on frivolous
things, you are contented to be petted and admired by silly people,
instead of being loved and respected by wise ones. With money,
talent, position, health, and beauty, ah you like that old Vanity!
But it's the truth, so I can't help saying it, with all these
splendid things to use and enjoy, you can find nothing to do but
dawdle, and instead of being the man you ought to be, you are only…
" there she stopped, with a look that had both pain and pity in
it.

"Saint Laurence on a gridiron," added Laurie, blandly finishing
the sentence. But the lecture began to take effect, for there was a
wide-awake sparkle in his eyes now and a half-angry, half-injured
expression replaced the former indifference.

"I supposed you'd take it so. You men tell us we are angels, and
say we can make you what we will, but the instant we honestly try
to do you good, you laugh at us and won't listen, which proves how
much your flattery is worth." Amy spoke bitterly, and turned her
back on the exasperating martyr at her feet.

In a minute a hand came down over the page, so that she could
not draw, and Laurie's voice said, with a droll imitation of a
penitent child, "I will be good, oh, I will be good!"

But Amy did not laugh, for she was in earnest, and tapping on
the outspread hand with her pencil, said soberly, "Aren't you
ashamed of a hand like that? It's as soft and white as a woman's,
and looks as if it never did anything but wear Jouvin's best gloves
and pick flowers for ladies. You are not a dandy, thank Heaven, so
I'm glad to see there are no diamonds or big seal rings on it, only
the little old one Jo gave you so long ago. Dear soul, I wish she
was here to help me!"

"So do I!"

The hand vanished as suddenly as it came, and there was energy
enough in the echo of her wish to suit even Amy. She glanced down
at him with a new thought in her mind, but he was lying with his
hat half over his face, as if for shade, and his mustache hid his
mouth. She only saw his chest rise and fall, with a long breath
that might have been a sigh, and the hand that wore the ring
nestled down into the grass, as if to hide something too precious
or too tender to be spoken of. All in a minute various hints and
trifles assumed shape and significance in Amy's mind, and told her
what her sister never had confided to her. She remembered that
Laurie never spoke voluntarily of Jo, she recalled the shadow on
his face just now, the change in his character, and the wearing of
the little old ring which was no ornament to a handsome hand. Girls
are quick to read such signs and feel their eloquence. Amy had
fancied that perhaps a love trouble was at the bottom of the
alteration, and now she was sure of it. Her keen eyes filled, and
when she spoke again, it was in a voice that could be beautifully
soft and kind when she chose to make it so.

