


Chapter

17
The Valley of the Shadow


When the first bitterness was over, the family accepted the
inevitable, and tried to bear it cheerfully, helping one another by
the increased affection which comes to bind households tenderly
together in times of trouble. They put away their grief, and each
did his or her part toward making that last year a happy one.

The pleasantest room in the house was set apart for Beth, and in
it was gathered everything that she most loved, flowers, pictures,
her piano, the little worktable, and the beloved pussies. Father's
best books found their way there, Mother's easy chair, Jo's desk,
Amy's finest sketches, and every day Meg brought her babies on a
loving pilgrimage, to make sunshine for Aunty Beth. John quietly
set apart a little sum, that he might enjoy the pleasure of keeping
the invalid supplied with the fruit she loved and longed for. Old
Hannah never wearied of concocting dainty dishes to tempt a
capricious appetite, dropping tears as she worked, and from across
the sea came little gifts and cheerful letters, seeming to bring
breaths of warmth and fragrance from lands that know no winter.

Here, cherished like a household saint in its shrine, sat Beth,
tranquil and busy as ever, for nothing could change the sweet,
unselfish nature, and even while preparing to leave life, she tried
to make it happier for those who should remain behind. The feeble
fingers were never idle, and one of her pleasures was to make
little things for the school children daily passing to and fro, to
drop a pair of mittens from her window for a pair of purple hands,
a needlebook for some small mother of many dolls, penwipers for
young penmen toiling through forests of pothooks, scrapbooks for
picture-loving eyes, and all manner of pleasant devices, till the
reluctant climbers of the ladder of learning found their way strewn
with flowers, as it were, and came to regard the gentle giver as a
sort of fairy godmother, who sat above there, and showered down
gifts miraculously suited to their tastes and needs. If Beth had
wanted any reward, she found it in the bright little faces always
turned up to her window, with nods and smiles, and the droll little
letters which came to her, full of blots and gratitude.

The first few months were very happy ones, and Beth often used
to look round, and say "How beautiful this is!" as they all sat
together in her sunny room, the babies kicking and crowing on the
floor, mother and sisters working near, and father reading, in his
pleasant voice, from the wise old books which seemed rich in good
and comfortable words, as applicable now as when written centuries
ago, a little chapel, where a paternal priest taught his flock the
hard lessons all must learn, trying to show them that hope can
comfort love, and faith make resignation possible. Simple sermons,
that went straight to the souls of those who listened, for the
father's heart was in the minister's religion, and the frequent
falter in the voice gave a double eloquence to the words he spoke
or read.

It was well for all that this peaceful time was given them as
preparation for the sad hours to come, for by-and-by, Beth said the
needle was 'so heavy', and put it down forever. Talking wearied
her, faces troubled her, pain claimed her for its own, and her
tranquil spirit was sorrowfully perturbed by the ills that vexed
her feeble flesh. Ah me! Such heavy days, such long, long nights,
such aching hearts and imploring prayers, when those who loved her
best were forced to see the thin hands stretched out to them
beseechingly, to hear the bitter cry, "Help me, help me!" and to
feel that there was no help. A sad eclipse of the serene soul, a
sharp struggle of the young life with death, but both were
mercifully brief, and then the natural rebellion over, the old
peace returned more beautiful than ever. With the wreck of her
frail body, Beth's soul grew strong, and though she said little,
those about her felt that she was ready, saw that the first pilgrim
called was likewise the fittest, and waited with her on the shore,
trying to see the Shining Ones coming to receive her when she
crossed the river.

Jo never left her for an hour since Beth had said "I feel
stronger when you are here." She slept on a couch in the room,
waking often to renew the fire, to feed, lift, or wait upon the
patient creature who seldom asked for anything, and 'tried not to
be a trouble'. All day she haunted the room, jealous of any other
nurse, and prouder of being chosen then than of any honor her life
ever brought her. Precious and helpful hours to Jo, for now her
heart received the teaching that it needed. Lessons in patience
were so sweetly taught her that she could not fail to learn them,
charity for all, the lovely spirit that can forgive and truly
forget unkindness, the loyalty to duty that makes the hardest easy,
and the sincere faith that fears nothing, but trusts
undoubtingly.

Often when she woke Jo found Beth reading in her well-worn
little book, heard her singing softly, to beguile the sleepless
night, or saw her lean her face upon her hands, while slow tears
dropped through the transparent fingers, and Jo would lie watching
her with thoughts too deep for tears, feeling that Beth, in her
simple, unselfish way, was trying to wean herself from the dear old
life, and fit herself for the life to come, by sacred words of
comfort, quiet prayers, and the music she loved so well.
