


Chapter

18
Learning to Forget


Amy's lecture did Laurie good, though, of course, he did not own
it till long afterward. Men seldom do, for when women are the
advisers, the lords of creation don't take the advice till they
have persuaded themselves that it is just what they intended to do.
Then they act upon it, and, if it succeeds, they give the weaker
vessel half the credit of it. If it fails, they generously give her
the whole. Laurie went back to his grandfather, and was so
dutifully devoted for several weeks that the old gentleman declared
the climate of Nice had improved him wonderfully, and he had better
try it again. There was nothing the young gentleman would have
liked better, but elephants could not have dragged him back after
the scolding he had received. Pride forbid, and whenever the
longing grew very strong, he fortified his resolution by repeating
the words that had made the deepest impression—"I despise you." "Go
and do something splendid that will make her love you."

Laurie turned the matter over in his mind so often that he soon
brought himself to confess that he had been selfish and lazy, but
then when a man has a great sorrow, he should be indulged in all
sorts of vagaries till he has lived it down. He felt that his
blighted affections were quite dead now, and though he should never
cease to be a faithful mourner, there was no occasion to wear his
weeds ostentatiously. Jo wouldn't love him, but he might make her
respect and admire him by doing something which should prove that a
girl's 'No' had not spoiled his life. He had always meant to do
something, and Amy's advice was quite unnecessary. He had only been
waiting till the aforesaid blighted affections were decently
interred. That being done, he felt that he was ready to 'hide his
stricken heart, and still toil on'.

As Goethe, when he had a joy or a grief, put it into a song, so
Laurie resolved to embalm his love sorrow in music, and to compose
a Requiem which should harrow up Jo's soul and melt the heart of
every hearer. Therefore the next time the old gentleman found him
getting restless and moody and ordered him off, he went to Vienna,
where he had musical friends, and fell to work with the firm
determination to distinguish himself. But whether the sorrow was
too vast to be embodied in music, or music too ethereal to uplift a
mortal woe, he soon discovered that the Requiem was beyond him just
at present. It was evident that his mind was not in working order
yet, and his ideas needed clarifying, for often in the middle of a
plaintive strain, he would find himself humming a dancing tune that
vividly recalled the Christmas ball at Nice, especially the stout
Frenchman, and put an effectual stop to tragic composition for the
time being.

Then he tried an opera, for nothing seemed impossible in the
beginning, but here again unforeseen difficulties beset him. He
wanted Jo for his heroine, and called upon his memory to supply him
with tender recollections and romantic visions of his love. But
memory turned traitor, and as if possessed by the perverse spirit
of the girl, would only recall Jo's oddities, faults, and freaks,
would only show her in the most unsentimental aspects—beating mats
with her head tied up in a bandanna, barricading herself with the
sofa pillow, or throwing cold water over his passion a la
Gummidge—and an irresistable laugh spoiled the pensive picture he
was endeavoring to paint. Jo wouldn't be put into the opera at any
price, and he had to give her up with a "Bless that girl, what a
torment she is!" and a clutch at his hair, as became a distracted
composer.

When he looked about him for another and a less intractable
damsel to immortalize in melody, memory produced one with the most
obliging readiness. This phantom wore many faces, but it always had
golden hair, was enveloped in a diaphanous cloud, and floated
airily before his mind's eye in a pleasing chaos of roses,
peacocks, white ponies, and blue ribbons. He did not give the
complacent wraith any name, but he took her for his heroine and
grew quite fond of her, as well he might, for he gifted her with
every gift and grace under the sun, and escorted her, unscathed,
through trials which would have annihilated any mortal woman.

Thanks to this inspiration, he got on swimmingly for a time, but
gradually the work lost its charm, and he forgot to compose, while
he sat musing, pen in hand, or roamed about the gay city to get
some new ideas and refresh his mind, which seemed to be in a
somewhat unsettled state that winter. He did not do much, but he
thought a great deal and was conscious of a change of some sort
going on in spite of himself. "It's genius simmering, perhaps. I'll
let it simmer, and see what comes of it," he said, with a secret
suspicion all the while that it wasn't genius, but something far
more common. Whatever it was, it simmered to some purpose, for he
grew more and more discontented with his desultory life, began to
long for some real and earnest work to go at, soul and body, and
finally came to the wise conclusion that everyone who loved music
was not a composer. Returning from one of Mozart's grand operas,
splendidly performed at the Royal Theatre, he looked over his own,
played a few of the best parts, sat staring at the busts of
Mendelssohn, Beethoven, and Bach, who stared benignly back again.
Then suddenly he tore up his music sheets, one by one, and as the
last fluttered out of his hand, he said soberly to himself…

"She is right! Talent isn't genius, and you can't make it so.
That music has taken the vanity out of me as Rome took it out of
her, and I won't be a humbug any longer. Now what shall I do?"
