
In a minute Amy went back to her place, and while she dried her
tears, Laurie gathered up the scattered papers, finding in the
sight of sundry well-worn letters and suggestive sketches good
omens for the future. As he sat down beside her, Amy felt shy
again, and turned rosy red at the recollection of her impulsive
greeting.

"I couldn't help it, I felt so lonely and sad, and was so very
glad to see you. It was such a surprise to look up and find you,
just as I was beginning to fear you wouldn't come," she said,
trying in vain to speak quite naturally.

"I came the minute I heard. I wish I could say something to
comfort you for the loss of dear little Beth, but I can only feel,
and… " He could not get any further, for he too turned bashful all
of a sudden, and did not quite know what to say. He longed to lay
Amy's head down on his shoulder, and tell her to have a good cry,
but he did not dare, so took her hand instead, and gave it a
sympathetic squeeze that was better than words.

"You needn't say anything, this comforts me," she said softly.
"Beth is well and happy, and I mustn't wish her back, but I dread
the going home, much as I long to see them all. We won't talk about
it now, for it makes me cry, and I want to enjoy you while you
stay. You needn't go right back, need you?"

"Not if you want me, dear."

"I do, so much. Aunt and Flo are very kind, but you seem like
one of the family, and it would be so comfortable to have you for a
little while."

Amy spoke and looked so like a homesick child whose heart was
full that Laurie forgot his bashfulness all at once, and gave her
just what she wanted—the petting she was used to and the cheerful
conversation she needed.

"Poor little soul, you look as if you'd grieved yourself half
sick! I'm going to take care of you, so don't cry any more, but
come and walk about with me, the wind is too chilly for you to sit
still," he said, in the half-caressing, half-commanding way that
Amy liked, as he tied on her hat, drew her arm through his, and
began to pace up and down the sunny walk under the new-leaved
chestnuts. He felt more at ease upon his legs, and Amy found it
pleasant to have a strong arm to lean upon, a familiar face to
smile at her, and a kind voice to talk delightfully for her
alone.

The quaint old garden had sheltered many pairs of lovers, and
seemed expressly made for them, so sunny and secluded was it, with
nothing but the tower to overlook them, and the wide lake to carry
away the echo of their words, as it rippled by below. For an hour
this new pair walked and talked, or rested on the wall, enjoying
the sweet influences which gave such a charm to time and place, and
when an unromantic dinner bell warned them away, Amy felt as if she
left her burden of loneliness and sorrow behind her in the chateau
garden.

The moment Mrs. Carrol saw the girl's altered face, she was
illuminated with a new idea, and exclaimed to herself, "Now I
understand it all—the child has been pining for young Laurence.
Bless my heart, I never thought of such a thing!"

