


Chapter

19
All Alone


It was easy to promise self-abnegation when self was wrapped up
in another, and heart and soul were purified by a sweet example.
But when the helpful voice was silent, the daily lesson over, the
beloved presence gone, and nothing remained but loneliness and
grief, then Jo found her promise very hard to keep. How could she
'comfort Father and Mother' when her own heart ached with a
ceaseless longing for her sister, how could she 'make the house
cheerful' when all its light and warmth and beauty seemed to have
deserted it when Beth left the old home for the new, and where in
all the world could she 'find some useful, happy work to do', that
would take the place of the loving service which had been its own
reward? She tried in a blind, hopeless way to do her duty, secretly
rebelling against it all the while, for it seemed unjust that her
few joys should be lessened, her burdens made heavier, and life get
harder and harder as she toiled along. Some people seemed to get
all sunshine, and some all shadow. It was not fair, for she tried
more than Amy to be good, but never got any reward, only
disappointment, trouble and hard work.

Poor Jo, these were dark days to her, for something like despair
came over her when she thought of spending all her life in that
quiet house, devoted to humdrum cares, a few small pleasures, and
the duty that never seemed to grow any easier. "I can't do it. I
wasn't meant for a life like this, and I know I shall break away
and do something desperate if somebody doesn't come and help me,"
she said to herself, when her first efforts failed and she fell
into the moody, miserable state of mind which often comes when
strong wills have to yield to the inevitable.

But someone did come and help her, though Jo did not recognize
her good angels at once because they wore familiar shapes and used
the simple spells best fitted to poor humanity. Often she started
up at night, thinking Beth called her, and when the sight of the
little empty bed made her cry with the bitter cry of unsubmissive
sorrow, "Oh, Beth, come back! Come back!" she did not stretch out
her yearning arms in vain. For, as quick to hear her sobbing as she
had been to hear her sister's faintest whisper, her mother came to
comfort her, not with words only, but the patient tenderness that
soothes by a touch, tears that were mute reminders of a greater
grief than Jo's, and broken whispers, more eloquent than prayers,
because hopeful resignation went hand-in-hand with natural sorrow.
Sacred moments, when heart talked to heart in the silence of the
night, turning affliction to a blessing, which chastened grief and
strengthned love. Feeling this, Jo's burden seemed easier to bear,
duty grew sweeter, and life looked more endurable, seen from the
safe shelter of her mother's arms.

When aching heart was a little comforted, troubled mind likewise
found help, for one day she went to the study, and leaning over the
good gray head lifted to welcome her with a tranquil smile, she
said very humbly, "Father, talk to me as you did to Beth. I need it
more than she did, for I'm all wrong."

"My dear, nothing can comfort me like this," he answered, with a
falter in his voice, and both arms round her, as if he too, needed
help, and did not fear to ask for it.

Then, sitting in Beth's little chair close beside him, Jo told
her troubles, the resentful sorrow for her loss, the fruitless
efforts that discouraged her, the want of faith that made life look
so dark, and all the sad bewilderment which we call despair. She
gave him entire confidence, he gave her the help she needed, and
both found consolation in the act. For the time had come when they
could talk together not only as father and daughter, but as man and
woman, able and glad to serve each other with mutual sympathy as
well as mutual love. Happy, thoughtful times there in the old study
which Jo called 'the church of one member', and from which she came
with fresh courage, recovered cheerfulness, and a more submissive
spirit. For the parents who had taught one child to meet death
without fear, were trying now to teach another to accept life
without despondency or distrust, and to use its beautiful
opportunities with gratitude and power.

Other helps had Jo—humble, wholesome duties and delights that
would not be denied their part in serving her, and which she slowly
learned to see and value. Brooms and dishcloths never could be as
distasteful as they once had been, for Beth had presided over both,
and something of her housewifely spirit seemed to linger around the
little mop and the old brush, never thrown away. As she used them,
Jo found herself humming the songs Beth used to hum, imitating
Beth's orderly ways, and giving the little touches here and there
that kept everything fresh and cozy, which was the first step
toward making home happy, though she didn't know it till Hannah
said with an approving squeeze of the hand…
