"It is so beautiful to be loved as Laurie loves me. He isn't
sentimental, doesn't say much about it, but I see and feel it in
all he says and does, and it makes me so happy and so humble that I
don't seem to be the same girl I was. I never knew how good and
generous and tender he was till now, for he lets me read his heart,
and I find it full of noble impulses and hopes and purposes, and am
so proud to know it's mine. He says he feels as if he 'could make a
prosperous voyage now with me aboard as mate, and lots of love for
ballast'. I pray he may, and try to be all he believes me, for I
love my gallant captain with all my heart and soul and might, and
never will desert him, while God lets us be together. Oh, Mother, I
never knew how much like heaven this world could be, when two
people love and live for one another!"

"And that's our cool, reserved, and worldly Amy! Truly, love
does work miracles. How very, very happy they must be!" and Jo laid
the rustling sheets together with a careful hand, as one might shut
the covers of a lovely romance, which holds the reader fast till
the end comes, and he finds himself alone in the workaday world
again.

By-and-by Jo roamed away upstairs, for it was rainy, and she
could not walk. A restless spirit possessed her, and the old
feeling came again, not bitter as it once was, but a sorrowfully
patient wonder why one sister should have all she asked, the other
nothing. It was not true, she knew that and tried to put it away,
but the natural craving for affection was strong, and Amy's
happiness woke the hungry longing for someone to 'love with heart
and soul, and cling to while God let them be together'. Up in the
garret, where Jo's unquiet wanderings ended stood four little
wooden chests in a row, each marked with its owners name, and each
filled with relics of the childhood and girlhood ended now for all.
Jo glanced into them, and when she came to her own, leaned her chin
on the edge, and stared absently at the chaotic collection, till a
bundle of old exercise books caught her eye. She drew them out,
turned them over, and relived that pleasant winter at kind Mrs.
Kirke's. She had smiled at first, then she looked thoughtful, next
sad, and when she came to a little message written in the
Professor's hand, her lips began to tremble, the books slid out of
her lap, and she sat looking at the friendly words, as they took a
new meaning, and touched a tender spot in her heart.

"Wait for me, my friend. I may be a little late, but I shall
surely come."

"Oh, if he only would! So kind, so good, so patient with me
always, my dear old Fritz. I didn't value him half enough when I
had him, but now how I should love to see him, for everyone seems
going away from me, and I'm all alone."

And holding the little paper fast, as if it were a promise yet
to be fulfilled, Jo laid her head down on a comfortable rag bag,
and cried, as if in opposition to the rain pattering on the
roof.

Was it all self-pity, loneliness, or low spirits? Or was it the
waking up of a sentiment which had bided its time as patiently as
its inspirer? Who shall say?




