"How did you ever get Aunt to agree?"

"It was hard work, but between us, we talked her over, for we
had heaps of good reasons on our side. There wasn't time to write
and ask leave, but you all liked it, had consented to it by-and-by,
and it was only 'taking time by the fetlock', as my wife says."

"Aren't we proud of those two words, and don't we like to say
them?" interrupted Jo, addressing the fire in her turn, and
watching with delight the happy light it seemed to kindle in the
eyes that had been so tragically gloomy when she saw them last.

"A trifle, perhaps, she's such a captivating little woman I
can't help being proud of her. Well, then Uncle and Aunt were there
to play propriety. We were so absorbed in one another we were of no
mortal use apart, and that charming arrangement would make
everything easy all round, so we did it."

"When, where, how?" asked Jo, in a fever of feminine interest
and curiosity, for she could not realize it a particle.

"Six weeks ago, at the American consul's, in Paris, a very quiet
wedding of course, for even in our happiness we didn't forget dear
little Beth."

Jo put her hand in his as he said that, and Laurie gently
smoothed the little red pillow, which he remembered well.

"Why didn't you let us know afterward?" asked Jo, in a quieter
tone, when they had sat quite still a minute.

"We wanted to surprise you. We thought we were coming directly
home, at first, but the dear old gentleman, as soon as we were
married, found he couldn't be ready under a month, at least, and
sent us off to spend our honeymoon wherever we liked. Amy had once
called Valrosa a regular honeymoon home, so we went there, and were
as happy as people are but once in their lives. My faith! Wasn't it
love among the roses!"

Laurie seemed to forget Jo for a minute, and Jo was glad of it,
for the fact that he told her these things so freely and so
naturally assured her that he had quite forgiven and forgotten. She
tried to draw away her hand, but as if he guessed the thought that
prompted the half-involuntary impulse, Laurie held it fast, and
said, with a manly gravity she had never seen in him before…

"Jo, dear, I want to say one thing, and then we'll put it by
forever. As I told you in my letter when I wrote that Amy had been
so kind to me, I never shall stop loving you, but the love is
altered, and I have learned to see that it is better as it is. Amy
and you changed places in my heart, that's all. I think it was
meant to be so, and would have come about naturally, if I had
waited, as you tried to make me, but I never could be patient, and
so I got a heartache. I was a boy then, headstrong and violent, and
it took a hard lesson to show me my mistake. For it was one, Jo, as
you said, and I found it out, after making a fool of myself. Upon
my word, I was so tumbled up in my mind, at one time, that I didn't
know which I loved best, you or Amy, and tried to love you both
alike. But I couldn't, and when I saw her in Switzerland,
everything seemed to clear up all at once. You both got into your
right places, and I felt sure that it was well off with the old
love before it was on with the new, that I could honestly share my
heart between sister Jo and wife Amy, and love them dearly. Will
you believe it, and go back to the happy old times when we first
knew one another?"
