
"What baseness! Well, if she abuses you, come to me, and I'll
defend you."

"I look as if I needed it, don't I?" said Laurie, getting up and
striking an attitude which suddenly changed from the imposing to
the rapturous, as Amy's voice was heard calling, "Where is she?
Where's my dear old Jo?"

In trooped the whole family, and everyone was hugged and kissed
all over again, and after several vain attempts, the three
wanderers were set down to be looked at and exulted over. Mr.
Laurence, hale and hearty as ever, was quite as much improved as
the others by his foreign tour, for the crustiness seemed to be
nearly gone, and the old-fashioned courtliness had received a
polish which made it kindlier than ever. It was good to see him
beam at 'my children', as he called the young pair. It was better
still to see Amy pay him the daughterly duty and affection which
completely won his old heart, and best of all, to watch Laurie
revolve about the two, as if never tired of enjoying the pretty
picture they made.

The minute she put her eyes upon Amy, Meg became conscious that
her own dress hadn't a Parisian air, that young Mrs. Moffat would
be entirely eclipsed by young Mrs. Laurence, and that 'her
ladyship' was altogether a most elegant and graceful woman. Jo
thought, as she watched the pair, "How well they look together! I
was right, and Laurie has found the beautiful, accomplished girl
who will become his home better than clumsy old Jo, and be a pride,
not a torment to him." Mrs. March and her husband smiled and nodded
at each other with happy faces, for they saw that their youngest
had done well, not only in worldly things, but the better wealth of
love, confidence, and happiness.

For Amy's face was full of the soft brightness which betokens a
peaceful heart, her voice had a new tenderness in it, and the cool,
prim carriage was changed to a gentle dignity, both womanly and
winning. No little affectations marred it, and the cordial
sweetness of her manner was more charming than the new beauty or
the old grace, for it stamped her at once with the unmistakable
sign of the true gentlewoman she had hoped to become.

"Love has done much for our little girl," said her mother
softly.

"She has had a good example before her all her life, my dear,"
Mr. March whispered back, with a loving look at the worn face and
gray head beside him.

Daisy found it impossible to keep her eyes off her 'pitty
aunty', but attached herself like a lap dog to the wonderful
chatelaine full of delightful charms. Demi paused to consider the
new relationship before he compromised himself by the rash
acceptance of a bribe, which took the tempting form of a family of
wooden bears from Berne. A flank movement produced an unconditional
surrender, however, for Laurie knew where to have him.

"Young man, when I first had the honor of making your
acquaintance you hit me in the face. Now I demand the satisfaction
of a gentleman," and with that the tall uncle proceeded to toss and
tousle the small nephew in a way that damaged his philosophical
dignity as much as it delighted his boyish soul.

"Blest if she ain't in silk from head to foot; ain't it a
relishin' sight to see her settin' there as fine as a fiddle, and
hear folks calling little Amy 'Mis. Laurence!'" muttered old
Hannah, who could not resist frequent "peeks" through the slide as
she set the table in a most decidedly promiscuous manner.

