
Aunt Dodo was chief playmate and confidante of both children,
and the trio turned the little house topsy-turvy. Aunt Amy was as
yet only a name to them, Aunt Beth soon faded into a pleasantly
vague memory, but Aunt Dodo was a living reality, and they made the
most of her, for which compliment she was deeply grateful. But when
Mr. Bhaer came, Jo neglected her playfellows, and dismay and
desolation fell upon their little souls. Daisy, who was fond of
going about peddling kisses, lost her best customer and became
bankrupt. Demi, with infantile penetration, soon discovered that
Dodo like to play with 'the bear-man' better than she did him, but
though hurt, he concealed his anguish, for he hadn't the heart to
insult a rival who kept a mine of chocolate drops in his waistcoat
pocket, and a watch that could be taken out of its case and freely
shaken by ardent admirers.

Some persons might have considered these pleasing liberties as
bribes, but Demi didn't see it in that light, and continued to
patronize the 'the bear-man' with pensive affability, while Daisy
bestowed her small affections upon him at the third call, and
considered his shoulder her throne, his arm her refuge, his gifts
treasures surpassing worth.

Gentlemen are sometimes seized with sudden fits of admiration
for the young relatives of ladies whom they honor with their
regard, but this counterfeit philoprogenitiveness sits uneasily
upon them, and does not deceive anybody a particle. Mr. Bhaer's
devotion was sincere, however likewise effective—for honesty is the
best policy in love as in law. He was one of the men who are at
home with children, and looked particularly well when little faces
made a pleasant contrast with his manly one. His business, whatever
it was, detained him from day to day, but evening seldom failed to
bring him out to see—well, he always asked for Mr. March, so I
suppose he was the attraction. The excellent papa labored under the
delusion that he was, and reveled in long discussions with the
kindred spirit, till a chance remark of his more observing grandson
suddenly enlightened him.

Mr. Bhaer came in one evening to pause on the threshold of the
study, astonished by the spectacle that met his eye. Prone upon the
floor lay Mr. March, with his respectable legs in the air, and
beside him, likewise prone, was Demi, trying to imitate the
attitude with his own short, scarlet-stockinged legs, both
grovelers so seriously absorbed that they were unconscious of
spectators, till Mr. Bhaer laughed his sonorous laugh, and Jo cried
out, with a scandalized face…

"Father, Father, here's the Professor!"

Down went the black legs and up came the gray head, as the
preceptor said, with undisturbed dignity, "Good evening, Mr. Bhaer.
Excuse me for a moment. We are just finishing our lesson. Now,
Demi, make the letter and tell its name."

"I knows him!" and, after a few convulsive efforts, the red legs
took the shape of a pair of compasses, and the intelligent pupil
triumphantly shouted, "It's a We, Dranpa, it's a We!"

"He's a born Weller," laughed Jo, as her parent gathered himself
up, and her nephew tried to stand on his head, as the only mode of
expressing his satisfaction that school was over.

"What have you been at today, bubchen?" asked Mr. Bhaer, picking
up the gymnast.

"Me went to see little Mary."

