
"She caught up her knitting, which had dropped out of her hands,
gave me a sharp look through her specs, and said, in her short way,
'Finish the chapter, and don't be impertinent, miss'."

"Did she own she liked it?" asked Meg.

"Oh, bless you, no! But she let old Belsham rest, and when I ran
back after my gloves this afternoon, there she was, so hard at the
Vicar that she didn't hear me laugh as I danced a jig in the hall
because of the good time coming. What a pleasant life she might
have if only she chose! I don't envy her much, in spite of her
money, for after all rich people have about as many worries as poor
ones, I think," added Jo.

"That reminds me," said Meg, "that I've got something to tell.
It isn't funny, like Jo's story, but I thought about it a good deal
as I came home. At the Kings' today I found everybody in a flurry,
and one of the children said that her oldest brother had done
something dreadful, and Papa had sent him away. I heard Mrs. King
crying and Mr. King talking very loud, and Grace and Ellen turned
away their faces when they passed me, so I shouldn't see how red
and swollen their eyes were. I didn't ask any questions, of course,
but I felt so sorry for them and was rather glad I hadn't any wild
brothers to do wicked things and disgrace the family."

"I think being disgraced in school is a great deal tryinger than
anything bad boys can do," said Amy, shaking her head, as if her
experience of life had been a deep one. "Susie Perkins came to
school today with a lovely red carnelian ring. I wanted it
dreadfully, and wished I was her with all my might. Well, she drew
a picture of Mr. Davis, with a monstrous nose and a hump, and the
words, 'Young ladies, my eye is upon you!' coming out of his mouth
in a balloon thing. We were laughing over it when all of a sudden
his eye was on us, and he ordered Susie to bring up her slate. She
was parrylized with fright, but she went, and oh, what do you think
he did? He took her by the ear—the ear! Just fancy how horrid!—and
led her to the recitation platform, and made her stand there half
an hour, holding the slate so everyone could see."

"Didn't the girls laugh at the picture?" asked Jo, who relished
the scrape.

"Laugh? Not one! They sat still as mice, and Susie cried quarts,
I know she did. I didn't envy her then, for I felt that millions of
carnelian rings wouldn't have made me happy after that. I never,
never should have got over such a agonizing mortification." And Amy
went on with her work, in the proud consciousness of virtue and the
successful utterance of two long words in a breath.

"I saw something I liked this morning, and I meant to tell it at
dinner, but I forgot," said Beth, putting Jo's topsy-turvy basket
in order as she talked. "When I went to get some oysters for
Hannah, Mr. Laurence was in the fish shop, but he didn't see me,
for I kept behind the fish barrel, and he was busy with Mr. Cutter
the fishman. A poor woman came in with a pail and a mop, and asked
Mr. Cutter if he would let her do some scrubbing for a bit of fish,
because she hadn't any dinner for her children, and had been
disappointed of a day's work. Mr. Cutter was in a hurry and said
'No', rather crossly, so she was going away, looking hungry and
sorry, when Mr. Laurence hooked up a big fish with the crooked end
of his cane and held it out to her. She was so glad and surprised
she took it right into her arms, and thanked him over and over. He
told her to 'go along and cook it', and she hurried off, so happy!
Wasn't it good of him? Oh, she did look so funny, hugging the big,
slippery fish, and hoping Mr. Laurence's bed in heaven would be
'aisy'."

When they had laughed at Beth's story, they asked their mother
for one, and after a moments thought, she said soberly, "As I sat
cutting out blue flannel jackets today at the rooms, I felt very
anxious about Father, and thought how lonely and helpless we should
be, if anything happened to him. It was not a wise thing to do, but
I kept on worrying till an old man came in with an order for some
clothes. He sat down near me, and I began to talk to him, for he
looked poor and tired and anxious.

"'Have you sons in the army?' I asked, for the note he brought
was not to me."

