"Does this suit you, Mr. Bhaer?" she asked, turning her back to
him, and feeling deeply grateful for the chance of hiding her
face.

"Excellently well, we will haf it," answered the Professor,
smiling to himself as he paid for it, while Jo continued to rummage
the counters like a confirmed bargain-hunter.

"Now shall we go home?" he asked, as if the words were very
pleasant to him.

"Yes, it's late, and I'm&#160;
so
&#160;tired." Jo's
voice was more pathetic than she knew. For now the sun seemed to
have gone in as suddenly as it came out, and the world grew muddy
and miserable again, and for the first time she discovered that her
feet were cold, her head ached, and that her heart was colder than
the former, fuller of pain than the latter. Mr. Bhaer was going
away, he only cared for her as a friend, it was all a mistake, and
the sooner it was over the better. With this idea in her head, she
hailed an approaching omnibus with such a hasty gesture that the
daisies flew out of the pot and were badly damaged.

"This is not our omniboos," said the Professor, waving the
loaded vehicle away, and stopping to pick up the poor little
flowers.

"I beg your pardon. I didn't see the name distinctly. Never
mind, I can walk. I'm used to plodding in the mud," returned Jo,
winking hard, because she would have died rather than openly wipe
her eyes.

Mr. Bhaer saw the drops on her cheeks, though she turned her
head away. The sight seemed to touch him very much, for suddenly
stooping down, he asked in a tone that meant a great deal, "Heart's
dearest, why do you cry?"

Now, if Jo had not been new to this sort of thing she would have
said she wasn't crying, had a cold in her head, or told any other
feminine fib proper to the occasion. Instead of which, that
undignified creature answered, with an irrepressible sob, "Because
you are going away."

"Ach, mein Gott, that is so good!" cried Mr. Bhaer, managing to
clasp his hands in spite of the umbrella and the bundles, "Jo, I
haf nothing but much love to gif you. I came to see if you could
care for it, and I waited to be sure that I was something more than
a friend. Am I? Can you make a little place in your heart for old
Fritz?" he added, all in one breath.

"Oh, yes!" said Jo, and he was quite satisfied, for she folded
both hands over his arm, and looked up at him with an expression
that plainly showed how happy she would be to walk through life
beside him, even though she had no better shelter than the old
umbrella, if he carried it.
