
It was certainly proposing under difficulties, for even if he
had desired to do so, Mr. Bhaer could not go down upon his knees,
on account of the mud. Neither could he offer Jo his hand, except
figuratively, for both were full. Much less could he indulge in
tender remonstrations in the open street, though he was near it. So
the only way in which he could express his rapture was to look at
her, with an expression which glorified his face to such a degree
that there actually seemed to be little rainbows in the drops that
sparkled on his beard. If he had not loved Jo very much, I don't
think he could have done it then, for she looked far from lovely,
with her skirts in a deplorable state, her rubber boots splashed to
the ankle, and her bonnet a ruin. Fortunately, Mr. Bhaer considered
her the most beautiful woman living, and she found him more
"Jove-like" than ever, though his hatbrim was quite limp with the
little rills trickling thence upon his shoulders (for he held the
umbrella all over Jo), and every finger of his gloves needed
mending.

Passers-by probably thought them a pair of harmless lunatics,
for they entirely forgot to hail a bus, and strolled leisurely
along, oblivious of deepening dusk and fog. Little they cared what
anybody thought, for they were enjoying the happy hour that seldom
comes but once in any life, the magical moment which bestows youth
on the old, beauty on the plain, wealth on the poor, and gives
human hearts a foretaste of heaven. The Professor looked as if he
had conquered a kingdom, and the world had nothing more to offer
him in the way of bliss. While Jo trudged beside him, feeling as if
her place had always been there, and wondering how she ever could
have chosen any other lot. Of course, she was the first to
speak—intelligibly, I mean, for the emotional remarks which
followed her impetuous "Oh, yes!" were not of a coherent or
reportable character.

"Friedrich, why didn't you… "

"Ah, heaven, she gifs me the name that no one speaks since Minna
died!" cried the Professor, pausing in a puddle to regard her with
grateful delight.

"I always call you so to myself—I forgot, but I won't unless you
like it."

"Like it? It is more sweet to me than I can tell. Say 'thou',
also, and I shall say your language is almost as beautiful as
mine."

"Isn't 'thou' a little sentimental?" asked Jo, privately
thinking it a lovely monosyllable.

"Sentimental? Yes. Thank Gott, we Germans believe in sentiment,
and keep ourselves young mit it. Your English 'you' is so cold, say
'thou', heart's dearest, it means so much to me," pleaded Mr.
Bhaer, more like a romantic student than a grave professor.

"Well, then, why didn't thou tell me all this sooner?" asked Jo
bashfully.

"Now I shall haf to show thee all my heart, and I so gladly
will, because thou must take care of it hereafter. See, then, my
Jo—ah, the dear, funny little name—I had a wish to tell something
the day I said goodbye in New York, but I thought the handsome
friend was betrothed to thee, and so I spoke not. Wouldst thou have
said 'Yes', then, if I had spoken?"

