
It was a very astonishing year altogether, for things seemed to
happen in an unusually rapid and delightful manner. Almost before
she knew where she was, Jo found herself married and settled at
Plumfield. Then a family of six or seven boys sprung up like
mushrooms, and flourished surprisingly, poor boys as well as rich,
for Mr. Laurence was continually finding some touching case of
destitution, and begging the Bhaers to take pity on the child, and
he would gladly pay a trifle for its support. In this way, the sly
old gentleman got round proud Jo, and furnished her with the style
of boy in which she most delighted.

Of course it was uphill work at first, and Jo made queer
mistakes, but the wise Professor steered her safely into calmer
waters, and the most rampant ragamuffin was conquered in the end.
How Jo did enjoy her 'wilderness of boys', and how poor, dear Aunt
March would have lamented had she been there to see the sacred
precincts of prim, well-ordered Plumfield overrun with Toms, Dicks,
and Harrys! There was a sort of poetic justice about it, after all,
for the old lady had been the terror of the boys for miles around,
and now the exiles feasted freely on forbidden plums, kicked up the
gravel with profane boots unreproved, and played cricket in the big
field where the irritable 'cow with a crumpled horn' used to invite
rash youths to come and be tossed. It became a sort of boys'
paradise, and Laurie suggested that it should be called the
'Bhaer-garten', as a compliment to its master and appropriate to
its inhabitants.

It never was a fashionable school, and the Professor did not lay
up a fortune, but it was just what Jo intended it to be—'a happy,
homelike place for boys, who needed teaching, care, and kindness'.
Every room in the big house was soon full. Every little plot in the
garden soon had its owner. A regular menagerie appeared in barn and
shed, for pet animals were allowed. And three times a day, Jo
smiled at her Fritz from the head of a long table lined on either
side with rows of happy young faces, which all turned to her with
affectionate eyes, confiding words, and grateful hearts, full of
love for 'Mother Bhaer'. She had boys enough now, and did not tire
of them, though they were not angels, by any means, and some of
them caused both Professor and Professorin much trouble and
anxiety. But her faith in the good spot which exists in the heart
of the naughtiest, sauciest, most tantalizing little ragamuffin
gave her patience, skill, and in time success, for no mortal boy
could hold out long with Father Bhaer shining on him as
benevolently as the sun, and Mother Bhaer forgiving him seventy
times seven. Very precious to Jo was the friendship of the lads,
their penitent sniffs and whispers after wrongdoing, their droll or
touching little confidences, their pleasant enthusiasms, hopes, and
plans, even their misfortunes, for they only endeared them to her
all the more. There were slow boys and bashful boys, feeble boys
and riotous boys, boys that lisped and boys that stuttered, one or
two lame ones, and a merry little quadroon, who could not be taken
in elsewhere, but who was welcome to the 'Bhaer-garten', though
some people predicted that his admission would ruin the school.

Yes, Jo was a very happy woman there, in spite of hard work,
much anxiety, and a perpetual racket. She enjoyed it heartily and
found the applause of her boys more satisfying than any praise of
the world, for now she told no stories except to her flock of
enthusiastic believers and admirers. As the years went on, two
little lads of her own came to increase her happiness—Rob, named
for Grandpa, and Teddy, a happy-go-lucky baby, who seemed to have
inherited his papa's sunshiny temper as well as his mother's lively
spirit. How they ever grew up alive in that whirlpool of boys was a
mystery to their grandma and aunts, but they flourished like
dandelions in spring, and their rough nurses loved and served them
well.

There were a great many holidays at Plumfield, and one of the
most delightful was the yearly apple-picking. For then the Marches,
Laurences, Brookes and Bhaers turned out in full force and made a
day of it. Five years after Jo's wedding, one of these fruitful
festivals occurred, a mellow October day, when the air was full of
an exhilarating freshness which made the spirits rise and the blood
dance healthily in the veins. The old orchard wore its holiday
attire. Goldenrod and asters fringed the mossy walls. Grasshoppers
skipped briskly in the sere grass, and crickets chirped like fairy
pipers at a feast. Squirrels were busy with their small harvesting.
Birds twittered their adieux from the alders in the lane, and every
tree stood ready to send down its shower of red or yellow apples at
the first shake. Everybody was there. Everybody laughed and sang,
climbed up and tumbled down. Everybody declared that there never
had been such a perfect day or such a jolly set to enjoy it, and
everyone gave themselves up to the simple pleasures of the hour as
freely as if there were no such things as care or sorrow in the
world.

Mr. March strolled placidly about, quoting Tusser, Cowley, and
Columella to Mr. Laurence, while enjoying…

The gentle apple's winey juice.

The Professor charged up and down the green aisles like a stout
Teutonic knight, with a pole for a lance, leading on the boys, who
made a hook and ladder company of themselves, and performed wonders
in the way of ground and lofty tumbling. Laurie devoted himself to
the little ones, rode his small daughter in a bushel-basket, took
Daisy up among the bird's nests, and kept adventurous Rob from
breaking his neck. Mrs. March and Meg sat among the apple piles
like a pair of Pomonas, sorting the contributions that kept pouring
in, while Amy with a beautiful motherly expression in her face
sketched the various groups, and watched over one pale lad, who sat
adoring her with his little crutch beside him.

Jo was in her element that day, and rushed about, with her gown
pinned up, and her hat anywhere but on her head, and her baby
tucked under her arm, ready for any lively adventure which might
turn up. Little Teddy bore a charmed life, for nothing ever
happened to him, and Jo never felt any anxiety when he was whisked
up into a tree by one lad, galloped off on the back of another, or
supplied with sour russets by his indulgent papa, who labored under
the Germanic delusion that babies could digest anything, from
pickled cabbage to buttons, nails, and their own small shoes. She
knew that little Ted would turn up again in time, safe and rosy,
dirty and serene, and she always received him back with a hearty
welcome, for Jo loved her babies tenderly.

At four o'clock a lull took place, and baskets remained empty,
while the apple pickers rested and compared rents and bruises. Then
Jo and Meg, with a detachment of the bigger boys, set forth the
supper on the grass, for an out-of-door tea was always the crowning
joy of the day. The land literally flowed with milk and honey on
such occasions, for the lads were not required to sit at table, but
allowed to partake of refreshment as they liked—freedom being the
sauce best beloved by the boyish soul. They availed themselves of
the rare privilege to the fullest extent, for some tried the
pleasing experiment of drinking milk while standing on their heads,
others lent a charm to leapfrog by eating pie in the pauses of the
game, cookies were sown broadcast over the field, and apple
turnovers roosted in the trees like a new style of bird. The little
girls had a private tea party, and Ted roved among the edibles at
his own sweet will.

