
With that, Jo shouldered her broom and marched into the house,
wondering what they would all say to her. Laurie was in a flutter
of excitement at the idea of having company, and flew about to get
ready, for as Mrs. March said, he was 'a little gentleman', and did
honor to the coming guest by brushing his curly pate, putting on a
fresh color, and trying to tidy up the room, which in spite of half
a dozen servants, was anything but neat. Presently there came a
loud ring, than a decided voice, asking for 'Mr. Laurie', and a
surprised-looking servant came running up to announce a young
lady.

"All right, show her up, it's Miss Jo," said Laurie, going to
the door of his little parlor to meet Jo, who appeared, looking
rosy and quite at her ease, with a covered dish in one hand and
Beth's three kittens in the other.

"Here I am, bag and baggage," she said briskly. "Mother sent her
love, and was glad if I could do anything for you. Meg wanted me to
bring some of her blanc mange, she makes it very nicely, and Beth
thought her cats would be comforting. I knew you'd laugh at them,
but I couldn't refuse, she was so anxious to do something."

It so happened that Beth's funny loan was just the thing, for in
laughing over the kits, Laurie forgot his bashfulness, and grew
sociable at once.

"That looks too pretty to eat," he said, smiling with pleasure,
as Jo uncovered the dish, and showed the blanc mange, surrounded by
a garland of green leaves, and the scarlet flowers of Amy's pet
geranium.

"It isn't anything, only they all felt kindly and wanted to show
it. Tell the girl to put it away for your tea. It's so simple you
can eat it, and being soft, it will slip down without hurting your
sore throat. What a cozy room this is!"

"It might be if it was kept nice, but the maids are lazy, and I
don't know how to make them mind. It worries me though."

"I'll right it up in two minutes, for it only needs to have the
hearth brushed, so—and the things made straight on the mantelpiece,
so—and the books put here, and the bottles there, and your sofa
turned from the light, and the pillows plumped up a bit. Now then,
you're fixed."

And so he was, for, as she laughed and talked, Jo had whisked
things into place and given quite a different air to the room.
Laurie watched her in respectful silence, and when she beckoned him
to his sofa, he sat down with a sigh of satisfaction, saying
gratefully…

"How kind you are! Yes, that's what it wanted. Now please take
the big chair and let me do something to amuse my company."

