Much elated with her success, Jo did 'tell on', all about their
plays and plans, their hopes and fears for Father, and the most
interesting events of the little world in which the sisters lived.
Then they got to talking about books, and to Jo's delight, she
found that Laurie loved them as well as she did, and had read even
more than herself.

"If you like them so much, come down and see ours. Grandfather
is out, so you needn't be afraid," said Laurie, getting up.

"I'm not afraid of anything," returned Jo, with a toss of the
head.

"I don't believe you are!" exclaimed the boy, looking at her
with much admiration, though he privately thought she would have
good reason to be a trifle afraid of the old gentleman, if she met
him in some of his moods.

The atmosphere of the whole house being summerlike, Laurie led
the way from room to room, letting Jo stop to examine whatever
struck her fancy. And so, at last they came to the library, where
she clapped her hands and pranced, as she always did when
especially delighted. It was lined with books, and there were
pictures and statues, and distracting little cabinets full of coins
and curiosities, and Sleepy Hollow chairs, and queer tables, and
bronzes, and best of all, a great open fireplace with quaint tiles
all round it.

"What richness!" sighed Jo, sinking into the depth of a velour
chair and gazing about her with an air of intense satisfaction.
"Theodore Laurence, you ought to be the happiest boy in the world,"
she added impressively.

"A fellow can't live on books," said Laurie, shaking his head as
he perched on a table opposite.

Before he could more, a bell rang, and Jo flew up, exclaiming
with alarm, "Mercy me! It's your grandpa!"

"Well, what if it is? You are not afraid of anything, you know,"
returned the boy, looking wicked.

"I think I am a little bit afraid of him, but I don't know why I
should be. Marmee said I might come, and I don't think you're any
the worse for it," said Jo, composing herself, though she kept her
eyes on the door.

"I'm a great deal better for it, and ever so much obliged. I'm
only afraid you are very tired of talking to me. It was so
pleasant, I couldn't bear to stop," said Laurie gratefully.
