
"In debt, Amy? What do you mean?" And Meg looked sober.

"Why, I owe at least a dozen pickled limes, and I can't pay
them, you know, till I have money, for Marmee forbade my having
anything charged at the shop."

"Tell me all about it. Are limes the fashion now? It used to be
pricking bits of rubber to make balls." And Meg tried to keep her
countenance, Amy looked so grave and important.

"Why, you see, the girls are always buying them, and unless you
want to be thought mean, you must do it too. It's nothing but limes
now, for everyone is sucking them in their desks in schooltime, and
trading them off for pencils, bead rings, paper dolls, or something
else, at recess. If one girl likes another, she gives her a lime.
If she's mad with her, she eats one before her face, and doesn't
offer even a suck. They treat by turns, and I've had ever so many
but haven't returned them, and I ought for they are debts of honor,
you know."

"How much will pay them off and restore your credit?" asked Meg,
taking out her purse.

"A quarter would more than do it, and leave a few cents over for
a treat for you. Don't you like limes?"

"Not much. You may have my share. Here's the money. Make it last
as long as you can, for it isn't very plenty, you know."

"Oh, thank you! It must be so nice to have pocket money! I'll
have a grand feast, for I haven't tasted a lime this week. I felt
delicate about taking any, as I couldn't return them, and I'm
actually suffering for one."

Next day Amy was rather late at school, but could not resist the
temptation of displaying, with pardonable pride, a moist
brown-paper parcel, before she consigned it to the inmost recesses
of her desk. During the next few minutes the rumor that Amy March
had got twenty-four delicious limes (she ate one on the way) and
was going to treat circulated through her 'set', and the attentions
of her friends became quite overwhelming. Katy Brown invited her to
her next party on the spot. Mary Kinglsey insisted on lending her
her watch till recess, and Jenny Snow, a satirical young lady, who
had basely twitted Amy upon her limeless state, promptly buried the
hatchet and offered to furnish answers to certain appalling sums.
But Amy had not forgotten Miss Snow's cutting remarks about 'some
persons whose noses were not too flat to smell other people's
limes, and stuck-up people who were not too proud to ask for them',
and she instantly crushed 'that Snow girl's' hopes by the withering
telegram, "You needn't be so polite all of a sudden, for you won't
get any."

A distinguished personage happened to visit the school that
morning, and Amy's beautifully drawn maps received praise, which
honor to her foe rankled in the soul of Miss Snow, and caused Miss
March to assume the airs of a studious young peacock. But, alas,
alas! Pride goes before a fall, and the revengeful Snow turned the
tables with disastrous success. No sooner had the guest paid the
usual stale compliments and bowed himself out, than Jenny, under
pretense of asking an important question, informed Mr. Davis, the
teacher, that Amy March had pickled limes in her desk.

