Now Mr. Davis had declared limes a contraband article, and
solemnly vowed to publicly ferrule the first person who was found
breaking the law. This much-enduring man had succeeded in banishing
chewing gum after a long and stormy war, had made a bonfire of the
confiscated novels and newspapers, had suppressed a private post
office, had forbidden distortions of the face, nicknames, and
caricatures, and done all that one man could do to keep half a
hundred rebellious girls in order. Boys are trying enough to human
patience, goodness knows, but girls are infinitely more so,
especially to nervous gentlemen with tyrannical tempers and no more
talent for teaching than Dr. Blimber. Mr. Davis knew any quantity
of Greek, Latin, algebra, and ologies of all sorts so he was called
a fine teacher, and manners, morals, feelings, and examples were
not considered of any particular importance. It was a most
unfortunate moment for denouncing Amy, and Jenny knew it. Mr. Davis
had evidently taken his coffee too strong that morning, there was
an east wind, which always affected his neuralgia, and his pupils
had not done him the credit which he felt he deserved. Therefore,
to use the expressive, if not elegant, language of a schoolgirl,
"He was as nervous as a witch and as cross as a bear". The word
'limes' was like fire to powder, his yellow face flushed, and he
rapped on his desk with an energy which made Jenny skip to her seat
with unusual rapidity.

"Young ladies, attention, if you please!"

At the stern order the buzz ceased, and fifty pairs of blue,
black, gray, and brown eyes were obediently fixed upon his awful
countenance.

"Miss March, come to the desk."

Amy rose to comply with outward composure, but a secret fear
oppressed her, for the limes weighed upon her conscience.

"Bring with you the limes you have in your desk," was the
unexpected command which arrested her before she got out of her
seat.

"Don't take all." whispered her neighbor, a young lady of great
presence of mind.

Amy hastily shook out half a dozen and laid the rest down before
Mr. Davis, feeling that any man possessing a human heart would
relent when that delicious perfume met his nose. Unfortunately, Mr.
Davis particularly detested the odor of the fashionable pickle, and
disgust added to his wrath.

"Is that all?"

"Not quite," stammered Amy.

"Bring the rest immediately."
