
With a despairing glance at her set, she obeyed.

"You are sure there are no more?"

"I never lie, sir."

"So I see. Now take these disgusting things two by two, and
throw them out of the window."

There was a simultaneous sigh, which created quite a little
gust, as the last hope fled, and the treat was ravished from their
longing lips. Scarlet with shame and anger, Amy went to and fro six
dreadful times, and as each doomed couple, looking oh, so plump and
juicy, fell from her reluctant hands, a shout from the street
completed the anguish of the girls, for it told them that their
feast was being exulted over by the little Irish children, who were
their sworn foes. This—this was too much. All flashed indignant or
appealing glances at the inexorable Davis, and one passionate lime
lover burst into tears.

As Amy returned from her last trip, Mr. Davis gave a portentous
"Hem!" and said, in his most impressive manner…

"Young ladies, you remember what I said to you a week ago. I am
sorry this has happened, but I never allow my rules to be
infringed, and I never break my word. Miss March, hold out your
hand."

Amy started, and put both hands behind her, turning on him an
imploring look which pleaded for her better than the words she
could not utter. She was rather a favorite with 'old Davis', as, of
course, he was called, and it's my private belief that he would
have broken his word if the indignation of one irrepressible young
lady had not found vent in a hiss. That hiss, faint as it was,
irritated the irascible gentleman, and sealed the culprit's
fate.

"Your hand, Miss March!" was the only answer her mute appeal
received, and too proud to cry or beseech, Amy set her teeth, threw
back her head defiantly, and bore without flinching several
tingling blows on her little palm. They were neither many nor
heavy, but that made no difference to her. For the first time in
her life she had been struck, and the disgrace, in her eyes, was as
deep as if he had knocked her down.

"You will now stand on the platform till recess," said Mr.
Davis, resolved to do the thing thoroughly, since he had begun.

