That was dreadful. It would have been bad enough to go to her
seat, and see the pitying faces of her friends, or the satisfied
ones of her few enemies, but to face the whole school, with that
shame fresh upon her, seemed impossible, and for a second she felt
as if she could only drop down where she stood, and break her heart
with crying. A bitter sense of wrong and the thought of Jenny Snow
helped her to bear it, and, taking the ignominious place, she fixed
her eyes on the stove funnel above what now seemed a sea of faces,
and stood there, so motionless and white that the girls found it
hard to study with that pathetic figure before them.

During the fifteen minutes that followed, the proud and
sensitive little girl suffered a shame and pain which she never
forgot. To others it might seem a ludicrous or trivial affair, but
to her it was a hard experience, for during the twelve years of her
life she had been governed by love alone, and a blow of that sort
had never touched her before. The smart of her hand and the ache of
her heart were forgotten in the sting of the thought, "I shall have
to tell at home, and they will be so disappointed in me!"

The fifteen minutes seemed an hour, but they came to an end at
last, and the word 'Recess!' had never seemed so welcome to her
before.

"You can go, Miss March," said Mr. Davis, looking, as he felt,
uncomfortable.

He did not soon forget the reproachful glance Amy gave him, as
she went, without a word to anyone, straight into the anteroom,
snatched her things, and left the place "forever," as she
passionately declared to herself. She was in a sad state when she
got home, and when the older girls arrived, some time later, an
indignation meeting was held at once. Mrs. March did not say much
but looked disturbed, and comforted her afflicted little daughter
in her tenderest manner. Meg bathed the insulted hand with
glycerine and tears, Beth felt that even her beloved kittens would
fail as a balm for griefs like this, Jo wrathfully proposed that
Mr. Davis be arrested without delay, and Hannah shook her fist at
the 'villain' and pounded potatoes for dinner as if she had him
under her pestle.

No notice was taken of Amy's flight, except by her mates, but
the sharp-eyed demoiselles discovered that Mr. Davis was quite
benignant in the afternoon, also unusually nervous. Just before
school closed, Jo appeared, wearing a grim expression as she
stalked up to the desk, and delivered a letter from her mother,
then collected Amy's property, and departed, carefully scraping the
mud from her boots on the door mat, as if she shook the dust of the
place off her feet.

"Yes, you can have a vacation from school, but I want you to
study a little every day with Beth," said Mrs. March that evening.
"I don't approve of corporal punishment, especially for girls. I
dislike Mr. Davis's manner of teaching and don't think the girls
you associate with are doing you any good, so I shall ask your
father's advice before I send you anywhere else."

"That's good! I wish all the girls would leave, and spoil his
old school. It's perfectly maddening to think of those lovely
limes," sighed Amy, with the air of a martyr.

"I am not sorry you lost them, for you broke the rules, and
deserved some punishment for disobedience," was the severe reply,
which rather disappointed the young lady, who expected nothing but
sympathy.

"Do you mean you are glad I was disgraced before the whole
school?" cried Amy.

"I should not have chosen that way of mending a fault," replied
her mother, "but I'm not sure that it won't do you more good than a
bolder method. You are getting to be rather conceited, my dear, and
it is quite time you set about correcting it. You have a good many
little gifts and virtues, but there is no need of parading them,
for conceit spoils the finest genius. There is not much danger that
real talent or goodness will be overlooked long, even if it is, the
consciousness of possessing and using it well should satisfy one,
and the great charm of all power is modesty."
