
"I know! I know! You're going to the theater to see
the&#160;
Seven Castles!
" she cried, adding resolutely,
"and I shall go, for Mother said I might see it, and I've got my
rag money, and it was mean not to tell me in time."

"Just listen to me a minute, and be a good child," said Meg
soothingly. "Mother doesn't wish you to go this week, because your
eyes are not well enough yet to bear the light of this fairy piece.
Next week you can go with Beth and Hannah, and have a nice
time."

"I don't like that half as well as going with you and Laurie.
Please let me. I've been sick with this cold so long, and shut up,
I'm dying for some fun. Do, Meg! I'll be ever so good," pleaded
Amy, looking as pathetic as she could.

"Suppose we take her. I don't believe Mother would mind, if we
bundle her up well," began Meg.

"If she goes I shan't, and if I don't, Laurie won't like it, and
it will be very rude, after he invited only us, to go and drag in
Amy. I should think she'd hate to poke herself where she isn't
wanted," said Jo crossly, for she disliked the trouble of
overseeing a fidgety child when she wanted to enjoy herself.

Her tone and manner angered Amy, who began to put her boots on,
saying, in her most aggravating way, "I shall go. Meg says I may,
and if I pay for myself, Laurie hasn't anything to do with it."

"You can't sit with us, for our seats are reserved, and you
mustn't sit alone, so Laurie will give you his place, and that will
spoil our pleasure. Or he'll get another seat for you, and that
isn't proper when you weren't asked. You shan't stir a step, so you
may just stay where you are," scolded Jo, crosser than ever, having
just pricked her finger in her hurry.

Sitting on the floor with one boot on, Amy began to cry and Meg
to reason with her, when Laurie called from below, and the two
girls hurried down, leaving their sister wailing. For now and then
she forgot her grown-up ways and acted like a spoiled child. Just
as the party was setting out, Amy called over the banisters in a
threatening tone, "You'll be sorry for this, Jo March, see if you
ain't."

"Fiddlesticks!" returned Jo, slamming the door.

