
"Don't say that. You were very naughty, and it is hard to
forgive the loss of her precious little book, but I think she might
do it now, and I guess she will, if you try her at the right
minute," said Meg. "Go after them. Don't say anything till Jo has
got good-natured with Laurie, than take a quiet minute and just
kiss her, or do some kind thing, and I'm sure she'll be friends
again with all her heart."

"I'll try," said Amy, for the advice suited her, and after a
flurry to get ready, she ran after the friends, who were just
disappearing over the hill.

It was not far to the river, but both were ready before Amy
reached them. Jo saw her coming, and turned her back. Laurie did
not see, for he was carefully skating along the shore, sounding the
ice, for a warm spell had preceded the cold snap.

"I'll go on to the first bend, and see if it's all right before
we begin to race," Amy heard him say, as he shot away, looking like
a young Russian in his fur-trimmed coat and cap.

Jo heard Amy panting after her run, stamping her feet and
blowing on her fingers as she tried to put her skates on, but Jo
never turned and went slowly zigzagging down the river, taking a
bitter, unhappy sort of satisfaction in her sister's troubles. She
had cherished her anger till it grew strong and took possession of
her, as evil thoughts and feelings always do unless cast out at
once. As Laurie turned the bend, he shouted back…

"Keep near the shore. It isn't safe in the middle." Jo heard,
but Amy was struggling to her feet and did not catch a word. Jo
glanced over her shoulder, and the little demon she was harboring
said in her ear…

"No matter whether she heard or not, let her take care of
herself."

Laurie had vanished round the bend, Jo was just at the turn, and
Amy, far behind, striking out toward the smoother ice in the middle
of the river. For a minute Jo stood still with a strange feeling in
her heart, then she resolved to go on, but something held and
turned her round, just in time to see Amy throw up her hands and go
down, with a sudden crash of rotten ice, the splash of water, and a
cry that made Jo's heart stand still with fear. She tried to call
Laurie, but her voice was gone. She tried to rush forward, but her
feet seemed to have no strength in them, and for a second, she
could only stand motionless, staring with a terror-stricken face at
the little blue hood above the black water. Something rushed
swiftly by her, and Laurie's voice cried out…

"Bring a rail. Quick, quick!"

How she did it, she never knew, but for the next few minutes she
worked as if possessed, blindly obeying Laurie, who was quite
self-possessed, and lying flat, held Amy up by his arm and hockey
stick till Jo dragged a rail from the fence, and together they got
the child out, more frightened than hurt.

