"Now then, we must walk her home as fast as we can. Pile our
things on her, while I get off these confounded skates," cried
Laurie, wrapping his coat round Amy, and tugging away at the straps
which never seemed so intricate before.

Shivering, dripping, and crying, they got Amy home, and after an
exciting time of it, she fell asleep, rolled in blankets before a
hot fire. During the bustle Jo had scarcely spoken but flown about,
looking pale and wild, with her things half off, her dress torn,
and her hands cut and bruised by ice and rails and refractory
buckles. When Amy was comfortably asleep, the house quiet, and Mrs.
March sitting by the bed, she called Jo to her and began to bind up
the hurt hands.

"Are you sure she is safe?" whispered Jo, looking remorsefully
at the golden head, which might have been swept away from her sight
forever under the treacherous ice.

"Quite safe, dear. She is not hurt, and won't even take cold, I
think, you were so sensible in covering and getting her home
quickly," replied her mother cheerfully.

"Laurie did it all. I only let her go. Mother, if she should
die, it would be my fault." And Jo dropped down beside the bed in a
passion of penitent tears, telling all that had happened, bitterly
condemning her hardness of heart, and sobbing out her gratitude for
being spared the heavy punishment which might have come upon
her.

"It's my dreadful temper! I try to cure it, I think I have, and
then it breaks out worse than ever. Oh, Mother, what shall I do?
What shall I do?" cried poor Jo, in despair.

"Watch and pray, dear, never get tired of trying, and never
think it is impossible to conquer your fault," said Mrs. March,
drawing the blowzy head to her shoulder and kissing the wet cheek
so tenderly that Jo cried even harder.

"You don't know, you can't guess how bad it is! It seems as if I
could do anything when I'm in a passion. I get so savage, I could
hurt anyone and enjoy it. I'm afraid I shall do something dreadful
some day, and spoil my life, and make everybody hate me. Oh,
Mother, help me, do help me!"

"I will, my child, I will. Don't cry so bitterly, but remember
this day, and resolve with all your soul that you will never know
another like it. Jo, dear, we all have our temptations, some far
greater than yours, and it often takes us all our lives to conquer
them. You think your temper is the worst in the world, but mine
used to be just like it."

"Yours, Mother? Why, you are never angry!" And for the moment Jo
forgot remorse in surprise.

"I've been trying to cure it for forty years, and have only
succeeded in controlling it. I am angry nearly every day of my
life, Jo, but I have learned not to show it, and I still hope to
learn not to feel it, though it may take me another forty years to
do so."
