
&#160;

"It will look nice over my new muslin skirt, and the sash will
set it off beautifully. I wish I hadn't smashed my coral bracelet,
for you might have had it," said Jo, who loved to give and lend,
but whose possessions were usually too dilapidated to be of much
use.

"There is a lovely old-fashioned pearl set in the treasure
chest, but Mother said real flowers were the prettiest ornament for
a young girl, and Laurie promised to send me all I want," replied
Meg. "Now, let me see, there's my new gray walking suit, just curl
up the feather in my hat, Beth, then my poplin for Sunday and the
small party, it looks heavy for spring, doesn't it? The violet silk
would be so nice. Oh, dear!"

"Never mind, you've got the tarlaton for the big party, and you
always look like an angel in white," said Amy, brooding over the
little store of finery in which her soul delighted.

"It isn't low-necked, and it doesn't sweep enough, but it will
have to do. My blue housedress looks so well, turned and freshly
trimmed, that I feel as if I'd got a new one. My silk sacque isn't
a bit the fashion, and my bonnet doesn't look like Sallie's. I
didn't like to say anything, but I was sadly disappointed in my
umbrella. I told Mother black with a white handle, but she forgot
and bought a green one with a yellowish handle. It's strong and
neat, so I ought not to complain, but I know I shall feel ashamed
of it beside Annie's silk one with a gold top," sighed Meg,
surveying the little umbrella with great disfavor.

"Change it," advised Jo.

"I won't be so silly, or hurt Marmee's feelings, when she took
so much pains to get my things. It's a nonsensical notion of mine,
and I'm not going to give up to it. My silk stockings and two pairs
of new gloves are my comfort. You are a dear to lend me yours, Jo.
I feel so rich and sort of elegant, with two new pairs, and the old
ones cleaned up for common." And Meg took a refreshing peep at her
glove box.

"Annie Moffat has blue and pink bows on her nightcaps. Would you
put some on mine?" she asked, as Beth brought up a pile of snowy
muslins, fresh from Hannah's hands.

"No, I wouldn't, for the smart caps won't match the plain gowns
without any trimming on them. Poor folks shouldn't rig," said Jo
decidedly.

"I wonder if I shall ever be happy enough to have real lace on
my clothes and bows on my caps?" said Meg impatiently.

