
Then he remembered the lamp. It was a rather curious one of
Moorish workmanship, made of dull silver inlaid with arabesques of
burnished steel, and studded with coarse turquoises. Perhaps it
might be missed by his servant, and questions would be asked. He
hesitated for a moment, then he turned back and took it from the
table. He could not help seeing the dead thing. How still it was!
How horribly white the long hands looked! It was like a dreadful
wax image.

Having locked the door behind him, he crept quietly downstairs.
The woodwork creaked and seemed to cry out as if in pain. He
stopped several times and waited. No: everything was still. It was
merely the sound of his own footsteps.

When he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the
corner. They must be hidden away somewhere. He unlocked a secret
press that was in the wainscoting, a press in which he kept his own
curious disguises, and put them into it. He could easily burn them
afterwards. Then he pulled out his watch. It was twenty minutes to
two.

He sat down and began to think. Every year—every month, almost—
men were strangled in England for what he had done. There had been
a madness of murder in the air. Some red star had come too close to
the earth… . And yet, what evidence was there against him? Basil
Hallward had left the house at eleven. No one had seen him come in
again. Most of the servants were at Selby Royal. His valet had gone
to bed… . Paris! Yes. It was to Paris that Basil had gone, and by
the midnight train, as he had intended. With his curious reserved
habits, it would be months before any suspicions would be roused.
Months! Everything could be destroyed long before then.

A sudden thought struck him. He put on his fur coat and hat and
went out into the hall. There he paused, hearing the slow heavy
tread of the policeman on the pavement outside and seeing the flash
of the bull's-eye reflected in the window. He waited and held his
breath.

After a few moments he drew back the latch and slipped out,
shutting the door very gently behind him. Then he began ringing the
bell. In about five minutes his valet appeared, half-dressed and
looking very drowsy.

"I am sorry to have had to wake you up, Francis," he said,
stepping in; "but I had forgotten my latch-key. What time is
it?"

"Ten minutes past two, sir," answered the man, looking at the
clock and blinking.

"Ten minutes past two? How horribly late! You must wake me at
nine to-morrow. I have some work to do."

"All right, sir."

