


Chapter

18

&#160;


The next day he did not leave the house, and, indeed, spent most
of the time in his own room, sick with a wild terror of dying, and
yet indifferent to life itself. The consciousness of being hunted,
snared, tracked down, had begun to dominate him. If the tapestry
did but tremble in the wind, he shook. The dead leaves that were
blown against the leaded panes seemed to him like his own wasted
resolutions and wild regrets. When he closed his eyes, he saw again
the sailor's face peering through the mist-stained glass, and
horror seemed once more to lay its hand upon his heart.

But perhaps it had been only his fancy that had called vengeance
out of the night and set the hideous shapes of punishment before
him. Actual life was chaos, but there was something terribly
logical in the imagination. It was the imagination that set remorse
to dog the feet of sin. It was the imagination that made each crime
bear its misshapen brood. In the common world of fact the wicked
were not punished, nor the good rewarded. Success was given to the
strong, failure thrust upon the weak. That was all. Besides, had
any stranger been prowling round the house, he would have been seen
by the servants or the keepers. Had any foot-marks been found on
the flower-beds, the gardeners would have reported it. Yes, it had
been merely fancy. Sibyl Vane's brother had not come back to kill
him. He had sailed away in his ship to founder in some winter sea.
From him, at any rate, he was safe. Why, the man did not know who
he was, could not know who he was. The mask of youth had saved
him.

And yet if it had been merely an illusion, how terrible it was
to think that conscience could raise such fearful phantoms, and
give them visible form, and make them move before one! What sort of
life would his be if, day and night, shadows of his crime were to
peer at him from silent corners, to mock him from secret places, to
whisper in his ear as he sat at the feast, to wake him with icy
fingers as he lay asleep! As the thought crept through his brain,
he grew pale with terror, and the air seemed to him to have become
suddenly colder. Oh! in what a wild hour of madness he had killed
his friend! How ghastly the mere memory of the scene! He saw it all
again. Each hideous detail came back to him with added horror. Out
of the black cave of time, terrible and swathed in scarlet, rose
the image of his sin. When Lord Henry came in at six o'clock, he
found him crying as one whose heart will break.

It was not till the third day that he ventured to go out. There
was something in the clear, pine-scented air of that winter morning
that seemed to bring him back his joyousness and his ardour for
life. But it was not merely the physical conditions of environment
that had caused the change. His own nature had revolted against the
excess of anguish that had sought to maim and mar the perfection of
its calm. With subtle and finely wrought temperaments it is always
so. Their strong passions must either bruise or bend. They either
slay the man, or themselves die. Shallow sorrows and shallow loves
live on. The loves and sorrows that are great are destroyed by
their own plenitude. Besides, he had convinced himself that he had
been the victim of a terror-stricken imagination, and looked back
now on his fears with something of pity and not a little of
contempt.

After breakfast, he walked with the duchess for an hour in the
garden and then drove across the park to join the shooting-party.
The crisp frost lay like salt upon the grass. The sky was an
inverted cup of blue metal. A thin film of ice bordered the flat,
reed-grown lake.

At the corner of the pine-wood he caught sight of Sir Geoffrey
Clouston, the duchess's brother, jerking two spent cartridges out
of his gun. He jumped from the cart, and having told the groom to
take the mare home, made his way towards his guest through the
withered bracken and rough undergrowth.

