For nearly ten minutes he stood there, motionless, with parted
lips and eyes strangely bright. He was dimly conscious that
entirely fresh influences were at work within him. Yet they seemed
to him to have come really from himself. The few words that Basil's
friend had said to him—words spoken by chance, no doubt, and with
wilful paradox in them— had touched some secret chord that had
never been touched before, but that he felt was now vibrating and
throbbing to curious pulses.

Music had stirred him like that. Music had troubled him many
times. But music was not articulate. It was not a new world, but
rather another chaos, that it created in us. Words! Mere words! How
terrible they were! How clear, and vivid, and cruel! One could not
escape from them. And yet what a subtle magic there was in them!
They seemed to be able to give a plastic form to formless things,
and to have a music of their own as sweet as that of viol or of
lute. Mere words! Was there anything so real as words?

Yes; there had been things in his boyhood that he had not
understood. He understood them now. Life suddenly became
fiery-coloured to him. It seemed to him that he had been walking in
fire. Why had he not known it?

With his subtle smile, Lord Henry watched him. He knew the
precise psychological moment when to say nothing. He felt intensely
interested. He was amazed at the sudden impression that his words
had produced, and, remembering a book that he had read when he was
sixteen, a book which had revealed to him much that he had not
known before, he wondered whether Dorian Gray was passing through a
similar experience. He had merely shot an arrow into the air. Had
it hit the mark? How fascinating the lad was!

Hallward painted away with that marvellous bold touch of his,
that had the true refinement and perfect delicacy that in art, at
any rate comes only from strength. He was unconscious of the
silence.

"Basil, I am tired of standing," cried Dorian Gray suddenly. "I
must go out and sit in the garden. The air is stifling here."

"My dear fellow, I am so sorry. When I am painting, I can't
think of anything else. But you never sat better. You were
perfectly still. And I have caught the effect I wanted— the
half-parted lips and the bright look in the eyes. I don't know what
Harry has been saying to you, but he has certainly made you have
the most wonderful expression. I suppose he has been paying you
compliments. You mustn't believe a word that he says."

"He has certainly not been paying me compliments. Perhaps that
is the reason that I don't believe anything he has told me."

"You know you believe it all," said Lord Henry, looking at him
with his dreamy languorous eyes. "I will go out to the garden with
you. It is horribly hot in the studio. Basil, let us have something
iced to drink, something with strawberries in it."

"Certainly, Harry. Just touch the bell, and when Parker comes I
will tell him what you want. I have got to work up this background,
so I will join you later on. Don't keep Dorian too long. I have
never been in better form for painting than I am to-day. This is
going to be my masterpiece. It is my masterpiece as it stands."

Lord Henry went out to the garden and found Dorian Gray burying
his face in the great cool lilac-blossoms, feverishly drinking in
their perfume as if it had been wine. He came close to him and put
his hand upon his shoulder. "You are quite right to do that," he
murmured. "Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as
nothing can cure the senses but the soul."
