"Whose property is it?"

"Dorian's, of course," answered the painter.

"He is a very lucky fellow."

"How sad it is!" murmured Dorian Gray with his eyes still fixed
upon his own portrait. "How sad it is! I shall grow old, and
horrible, and dreadful. But this picture will remain always young.
It will never be older than this particular day of June… . If it
were only the other way! If it were I who was to be always young,
and the picture that was to grow old! For that—for that—I would
give everything! Yes, there is nothing in the whole world I would
not give! I would give my soul for that!"

"You would hardly care for such an arrangement, Basil," cried
Lord Henry, laughing. "It would be rather hard lines on your
work."

"I should object very strongly, Harry," said Hallward.

Dorian Gray turned and looked at him. "I believe you would,
Basil. You like your art better than your friends. I am no more to
you than a green bronze figure. Hardly as much, I dare say."

The painter stared in amazement. It was so unlike Dorian to
speak like that. What had happened? He seemed quite angry. His face
was flushed and his cheeks burning.

"Yes," he continued, "I am less to you than your ivory Hermes or
your silver Faun. You will like them always. How long will you like
me? Till I have my first wrinkle, I suppose. I know, now, that when
one loses one's good looks, whatever they may be, one loses
everything. Your picture has taught me that. Lord Henry Wotton is
perfectly right. Youth is the only thing worth having. When I find
that I am growing old, I shall kill myself."

Hallward turned pale and caught his hand. "Dorian! Dorian!" he
cried, "don't talk like that. I have never had such a friend as
you, and I shall never have such another. You are not jealous of
material things, are you?— you who are finer than any of them!"

"I am jealous of everything whose beauty does not die. I am
jealous of the portrait you have painted of me. Why should it keep
what I must lose? Every moment that passes takes something from me
and gives something to it. Oh, if it were only the other way! If
the picture could change, and I could be always what I am now! Why
did you paint it? It will mock me some day—mock me horribly!" The
hot tears welled into his eyes; he tore his hand away and, flinging
himself on the divan, he buried his face in the cushions, as though
he was praying.
