


Chapter

7

&#160;


For some reason or other, the house was crowded that night, and
the fat Jew manager who met them at the door was beaming from ear
to ear with an oily tremulous smile. He escorted them to their box
with a sort of pompous humility, waving his fat jewelled hands and
talking at the top of his voice. Dorian Gray loathed him more than
ever. He felt as if he had come to look for Miranda and had been
met by Caliban. Lord Henry, upon the other hand, rather liked him.
At least he declared he did, and insisted on shaking him by the
hand and assuring him that he was proud to meet a man who had
discovered a real genius and gone bankrupt over a poet. Hallward
amused himself with watching the faces in the pit. The heat was
terribly oppressive, and the huge sunlight flamed like a monstrous
dahlia with petals of yellow fire. The youths in the gallery had
taken off their coats and waistcoats and hung them over the side.
They talked to each other across the theatre and shared their
oranges with the tawdry girls who sat beside them. Some women were
laughing in the pit. Their voices were horribly shrill and
discordant. The sound of the popping of corks came from the
bar.

"What a place to find one's divinity in!" said Lord Henry.

"Yes!" answered Dorian Gray. "It was here I found her, and she
is divine beyond all living things. When she acts, you will forget
everything. These common rough people, with their coarse faces and
brutal gestures, become quite different when she is on the stage.
They sit silently and watch her. They weep and laugh as she wills
them to do. She makes them as responsive as a violin. She
spiritualizes them, and one feels that they are of the same flesh
and blood as one's self."

"The same flesh and blood as one's self! Oh, I hope not!"
exclaimed Lord Henry, who was scanning the occupants of the gallery
through his opera-glass.

"Don't pay any attention to him, Dorian," said the painter. "I
understand what you mean, and I believe in this girl. Any one you
love must be marvellous, and any girl who has the effect you
describe must be fine and noble. To spiritualize one's age—that is
something worth doing. If this girl can give a soul to those who
have lived without one, if she can create the sense of beauty in
people whose lives have been sordid and ugly, if she can strip them
of their selfishness and lend them tears for sorrows that are not
their own, she is worthy of all your adoration, worthy of the
adoration of the world. This marriage is quite right. I did not
think so at first, but I admit it now. The gods made Sibyl Vane for
you. Without her you would have been incomplete."

"Thanks, Basil," answered Dorian Gray, pressing his hand. "I
knew that you would understand me. Harry is so cynical, he
terrifies me. But here is the orchestra. It is quite dreadful, but
it only lasts for about five minutes. Then the curtain rises, and
you will see the girl to whom I am going to give all my life, to
whom I have given everything that is good in me."

