A quarter of an hour afterwards, amidst an extraordinary turmoil
of applause, Sibyl Vane stepped on to the stage. Yes, she was
certainly lovely to look at— one of the loveliest creatures, Lord
Henry thought, that he had ever seen. There was something of the
fawn in her shy grace and startled eyes. A faint blush, like the
shadow of a rose in a mirror of silver, came to her cheeks as she
glanced at the crowded enthusiastic house. She stepped back a few
paces and her lips seemed to tremble. Basil Hallward leaped to his
feet and began to applaud. Motionless, and as one in a dream, sat
Dorian Gray, gazing at her. Lord Henry peered through his glasses,
murmuring, "Charming! charming!"

The scene was the hall of Capulet's house, and Romeo in his
pilgrim's dress had entered with Mercutio and his other friends.
The band, such as it was, struck up a few bars of music, and the
dance began. Through the crowd of ungainly, shabbily dressed
actors, Sibyl Vane moved like a creature from a finer world. Her
body swayed, while she danced, as a plant sways in the water. The
curves of her throat were the curves of a white lily. Her hands
seemed to be made of cool ivory.

Yet she was curiously listless. She showed no sign of joy when
her eyes rested on Romeo. The few words she had to speak—

Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much, Which mannerly
devotion shows in this; For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands
do touch, And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss— with the brief
dialogue that follows, were spoken in a thoroughly artificial
manner. The voice was exquisite, but from the point of view of tone
it was absolutely false. It was wrong in colour. It took away all
the life from the verse. It made the passion unreal.

Dorian Gray grew pale as he watched her. He was puzzled and
anxious. Neither of his friends dared to say anything to him. She
seemed to them to be absolutely incompetent. They were horribly
disappointed.

Yet they felt that the true test of any Juliet is the balcony
scene of the second act. They waited for that. If she failed there,
there was nothing in her.

She looked charming as she came out in the moonlight. That could
not be denied. But the staginess of her acting was unbearable, and
grew worse as she went on. Her gestures became absurdly artificial.
She overemphasized everything that she had to say. The beautiful
passage—

Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face, Else would a
maiden blush bepaint my cheek For that which thou hast heard me
speak to-night—

was declaimed with the painful precision of a schoolgirl who has
been taught to recite by some second-rate professor of elocution.
When she leaned over the balcony and came to those wonderful
lines—

Although I joy in thee, I have no joy of this contract to-night:
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden; Too like the lightning,
which doth cease to be Ere one can say, "It lightens." Sweet,
good-night! This bud of love by summer's ripening breath May prove
a beauteous flower when next we meet— she spoke the words as though
they conveyed no meaning to her. It was not nervousness. Indeed, so
far from being nervous, she was absolutely self-contained. It was
simply bad art. She was a complete failure.

Even the common uneducated audience of the pit and gallery lost
their interest in the play. They got restless, and began to talk
loudly and to whistle. The Jew manager, who was standing at the
back of the dress-circle, stamped and swore with rage. The only
person unmoved was the girl herself.
