As soon as he was dressed, he went into the library and sat down
to a light French breakfast that had been laid out for him on a
small round table close to the open window. It was an exquisite
day. The warm air seemed laden with spices. A bee flew in and
buzzed round the blue-dragon bowl that, filled with sulphur-yellow
roses, stood before him. He felt perfectly happy.

Suddenly his eye fell on the screen that he had placed in front
of the portrait, and he started.

"Too cold for Monsieur?" asked his valet, putting an omelette on
the table. "I shut the window?"

Dorian shook his head. "I am not cold," he murmured.

Was it all true? Had the portrait really changed? Or had it been
simply his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil
where there had been a look of joy? Surely a painted canvas could
not alter? The thing was absurd. It would serve as a tale to tell
Basil some day. It would make him smile.

And, yet, how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing!
First in the dim twilight, and then in the bright dawn, he had seen
the touch of cruelty round the warped lips. He almost dreaded his
valet leaving the room. He knew that when he was alone he would
have to examine the portrait. He was afraid of certainty. When the
coffee and cigarettes had been brought and the man turned to go, he
felt a wild desire to tell him to remain. As the door was closing
behind him, he called him back. The man stood waiting for his
orders. Dorian looked at him for a moment. "I am not at home to any
one, Victor," he said with a sigh. The man bowed and retired.

Then he rose from the table, lit a cigarette, and flung himself
down on a luxuriously cushioned couch that stood facing the screen.
The screen was an old one, of gilt Spanish leather, stamped and
wrought with a rather florid Louis-Quatorze pattern. He scanned it
curiously, wondering if ever before it had concealed the secret of
a man's life.

Should he move it aside, after all? Why not let it stay there?
What was the use of knowing.? If the thing was true, it was
terrible. If it was not true, why trouble about it? But what if, by
some fate or deadlier chance, eyes other than his spied behind and
saw the horrible change? What should he do if Basil Hallward came
and asked to look at his own picture? Basil would be sure to do
that. No; the thing had to be examined, and at once. Anything would
be better than this dreadful state of doubt.

He got up and locked both doors. At least he would be alone when
he looked upon the mask of his shame. Then he drew the screen aside
and saw himself face to face. It was perfectly true. The portrait
had altered.

As he often remembered afterwards, and always with no small
wonder, he found himself at first gazing at the portrait with a
feeling of almost scientific interest. That such a change should
have taken place was incredible to him. And yet it was a fact. Was
there some subtle affinity between the chemical atoms that shaped
themselves into form and colour on the canvas and the soul that was
within him? Could it be that what that soul thought, they
realized?—that what it dreamed, they made true? Or was there some
other, more terrible reason? He shuddered, and felt afraid, and,
going back to the couch, lay there, gazing at the picture in
sickened horror.

One thing, however, he felt that it had done for him. It had
made him conscious how unjust, how cruel, he had been to Sibyl
Vane. It was not too late to make reparation for that. She could
still be his wife. His unreal and selfish love would yield to some
higher influence, would be transformed into some nobler passion,
and the portrait that Basil Hallward had painted of him would be a
guide to him through life, would be to him what holiness is to
some, and conscience to others, and the fear of God to us all.
There were opiates for remorse, drugs that could lull the moral
sense to sleep. But here was a visible symbol of the degradation of
sin. Here was an ever-present sign of the ruin men brought upon
their souls.
