
"It is quite true, Dorian," said Lord Henry, gravely. "It is in
all the morning papers. I wrote down to you to ask you not to see
any one till I came. There will have to be an inquest, of course,
and you must not be mixed up in it. Things like that make a man
fashionable in Paris. But in London people are so prejudiced. Here,
one should never make one's debut with a scandal. One should
reserve that to give an interest to one's old age. I suppose they
don't know your name at the theatre? If they don't, it is all
right. Did any one see you going round to her room? That is an
important point."

Dorian did not answer for a few moments. He was dazed with
horror. Finally he stammered, in a stifled voice, "Harry, did you
say an inquest? What did you mean by that? Did Sibyl—? Oh, Harry, I
can't bear it! But be quick. Tell me everything at once."

"I have no doubt it was not an accident, Dorian, though it must
be put in that way to the public. It seems that as she was leaving
the theatre with her mother, about half-past twelve or so, she said
she had forgotten something upstairs. They waited some time for
her, but she did not come down again. They ultimately found her
lying dead on the floor of her dressing-room. She had swallowed
something by mistake, some dreadful thing they use at theatres. I
don't know what it was, but it had either prussic acid or white
lead in it. I should fancy it was prussic acid, as she seems to
have died instantaneously."

"Harry, Harry, it is terrible!" cried the lad.

"Yes; it is very tragic, of course, but you must not get
yourself mixed up in it. I see by The Standard that she was
seventeen. I should have thought she was almost younger than that.
She looked such a child, and seemed to know so little about acting.
Dorian, you mustn't let this thing get on your nerves. You must
come and dine with me, and afterwards we will look in at the opera.
It is a Patti night, and everybody will be there. You can come to
my sister's box. She has got some smart women with her."

"So I have murdered Sibyl Vane," said Dorian Gray, half to
himself, "murdered her as surely as if I had cut her little throat
with a knife. Yet the roses are not less lovely for all that. The
birds sing just as happily in my garden. And to-night I am to dine
with you, and then go on to the opera, and sup somewhere, I
suppose, afterwards. How extraordinarily dramatic life is! If I had
read all this in a book, Harry, I think I would have wept over it.
Somehow, now that it has happened actually, and to me, it seems far
too wonderful for tears. Here is the first passionate love-letter I
have ever written in my life. Strange, that my first passionate
love-letter should have been addressed to a dead girl. Can they
feel, I wonder, those white silent people we call the dead? Sibyl!
Can she feel, or know, or listen? Oh, Harry, how I loved her once!
It seems years ago to me now. She was everything to me. Then came
that dreadful night—was it really only last night?— when she played
so badly, and my heart almost broke. She explained it all to me. It
was terribly pathetic. But I was not moved a bit. I thought her
shallow. Suddenly something happened that made me afraid. I can't
tell you what it was, but it was terrible. I said I would go back
to her. I felt I had done wrong. And now she is dead. My God! My
God! Harry, what shall I do? You don't know the danger I am in, and
there is nothing to keep me straight. She would have done that for
me. She had no right to kill herself. It was selfish of her."

"My dear Dorian," answered Lord Henry, taking a cigarette from
his case and producing a gold-latten matchbox, "the only way a
woman can ever reform a man is by boring him so completely that he
loses all possible interest in life. If you had married this girl,
you would have been wretched. Of course, you would have treated her
kindly. One can always be kind to people about whom one cares
nothing. But she would have soon found out that you were absolutely
indifferent to her. And when a woman finds that out about her
husband, she either becomes dreadfully dowdy, or wears very smart
bonnets that some other woman's husband has to pay for. I say
nothing about the social mistake, which would have been
abject—which, of course, I would not have allowed— but I assure you
that in any case the whole thing would have been an absolute
failure."

"I suppose it would," muttered the lad, walking up and down the
room and looking horribly pale. "But I thought it was my duty. It
is not my fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing
what was right. I remember your saying once that there is a
fatality about good resolutions—that they are always made too late.
Mine certainly were."

"Good resolutions are useless attempts to interfere with
scientific laws. Their origin is pure vanity. Their result is
absolutely nil. They give us, now and then, some of those luxurious
sterile emotions that have a certain charm for the weak. That is
all that can be said for them. They are simply cheques that men
draw on a bank where they have no account."

"Harry," cried Dorian Gray, coming over and sitting down beside
him, "why is it that I cannot feel this tragedy as much as I want
to? I don't think I am heartless. Do you?"

