
"She will never come to life again now," muttered the lad,
burying his face in his hands.

"No, she will never come to life. She has played her last part.
But you must think of that lonely death in the tawdry dressing-room
simply as a strange lurid fragment from some Jacobean tragedy, as a
wonderful scene from Webster, or Ford, or Cyril Tourneur. The girl
never really lived, and so she has never really died. To you at
least she was always a dream, a phantom that flitted through
Shakespeare's plays and left them lovelier for its presence, a reed
through which Shakespeare's music sounded richer and more full of
joy. The moment she touched actual life, she marred it, and it
marred her, and so she passed away. Mourn for Ophelia, if you like.
Put ashes on your head because Cordelia was strangled. Cry out
against Heaven because the daughter of Brabantio died. But don't
waste your tears over Sibyl Vane. She was less real than they
are."

There was a silence. The evening darkened in the room.
Noiselessly, and with silver feet, the shadows crept in from the
garden. The colours faded wearily out of things.

After some time Dorian Gray looked up. "You have explained me to
myself, Harry," he murmured with something of a sigh of relief. "I
felt all that you have said, but somehow I was afraid of it, and I
could not express it to myself. How well you know me! But we will
not talk again of what has happened. It has been a marvellous
experience. That is all. I wonder if life has still in store for me
anything as marvellous."

"Life has everything in store for you, Dorian. There is nothing
that you, with your extraordinary good looks, will not be able to
do."

"But suppose, Harry, I became haggard, and old, and wrinkled?
What then?"

"Ah, then," said Lord Henry, rising to go, "then, my dear
Dorian, you would have to fight for your victories. As it is, they
are brought to you. No, you must keep your good looks. We live in
an age that reads too much to be wise, and that thinks too much to
be beautiful. We cannot spare you. And now you had better dress and
drive down to the club. We are rather late, as it is."

"I think I shall join you at the opera, Harry. I feel too tired
to eat anything. What is the number of your sister's box?"

"Twenty-seven, I believe. It is on the grand tier. You will see
her name on the door. But I am sorry you won't come and dine."

"I don't feel up to it," said Dorian listlessly. "But I am
awfully obliged to you for all that you have said to me. You are
certainly my best friend. No one has ever understood me as you
have."

