But there was no other place in the house so secure from prying
eyes as this. He had the key, and no one else could enter it.
Beneath its purple pall, the face painted on the canvas could grow
bestial, sodden, and unclean. What did it matter? No one could see
it. He himself would not see it. Why should he watch the hideous
corruption of his soul? He kept his youth— that was enough. And,
besides, might not his nature grow finer, after all? There was no
reason that the future should be so full of shame. Some love might
come across his life, and purify him, and shield him from those
sins that seemed to be already stirring in spirit and in flesh—
those curious unpictured sins whose very mystery lent them their
subtlety and their charm. Perhaps, some day, the cruel look would
have passed away from the scarlet sensitive mouth, and he might
show to the world Basil Hallward's masterpiece.

No; that was impossible. Hour by hour, and week by week, the
thing upon the canvas was growing old. It might escape the
hideousness of sin, but the hideousness of age was in store for it.
The cheeks would become hollow or flaccid. Yellow crow's feet would
creep round the fading eyes and make them horrible. The hair would
lose its brightness, the mouth would gape or droop, would be
foolish or gross, as the mouths of old men are. There would be the
wrinkled throat, the cold, blue-veined hands, the twisted body,
that he remembered in the grandfather who had been so stern to him
in his boyhood. The picture had to be concealed. There was no help
for it.

"Bring it in, Mr. Hubbard, please," he said, wearily, turning
round. "I am sorry I kept you so long. I was thinking of something
else."

"Always glad to have a rest, Mr. Gray," answered the
frame-maker, who was still gasping for breath. "Where shall we put
it, sir?"

"Oh, anywhere. Here: this will do. I don't want to have it hung
up. Just lean it against the wall. Thanks."

"Might one look at the work of art, sir?"

Dorian started. "It would not interest you, Mr. Hubbard," he
said, keeping his eye on the man. He felt ready to leap upon him
and fling him to the ground if he dared to lift the gorgeous
hanging that concealed the secret of his life. "I shan't trouble
you any more now. I am much obliged for your kindness in coming
round."

"Not at all, not at all, Mr. Gray. Ever ready to do anything for
you, sir." And Mr. Hubbard tramped downstairs, followed by the
assistant, who glanced back at Dorian with a look of shy wonder in
his rough uncomely face. He had never seen any one so
marvellous.

When the sound of their footsteps had died away, Dorian locked
the door and put the key in his pocket. He felt safe now. No one
would ever look upon the horrible thing. No eye but his would ever
see his shame.

On reaching the library, he found that it was just after five
o'clock and that the tea had been already brought up. On a little
table of dark perfumed wood thickly incrusted with nacre, a present
from Lady Radley, his guardian's wife, a pretty professional
invalid who had spent the preceding winter in Cairo, was lying a
note from Lord Henry, and beside it was a book bound in yellow
paper, the cover slightly torn and the edges soiled. A copy of the
third edition of The St. James's Gazette had been placed on the
tea-tray. It was evident that Victor had returned. He wondered if
he had met the men in the hall as they were leaving the house and
had wormed out of them what they had been doing. He would be sure
to miss the picture—had no doubt missed it already, while he had
been laying the tea-things. The screen had not been set back, and a
blank space was visible on the wall. Perhaps some night he might
find him creeping upstairs and trying to force the door of the
room. It was a horrible thing to have a spy in one's house. He had
heard of rich men who had been blackmailed all their lives by some
servant who had read a letter, or overheard a conversation, or
picked up a card with an address, or found beneath a pillow a
withered flower or a shred of crumpled lace.

He sighed, and having poured himself out some tea, opened Lord
Henry's note. It was simply to say that he sent him round the
evening paper, and a book that might interest him, and that he
would be at the club at eight-fifteen. He opened The St. James's
languidly, and looked through it. A red pencil-mark on the fifth
page caught his eye. It drew attention to the following
paragraph:
