


Chapter

11

&#160;


For years, Dorian Gray could not free himself from the influence
of this book. Or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that he
never sought to free himself from it. He procured from Paris no
less than nine large-paper copies of the first edition, and had
them bound in different colours, so that they might suit his
various moods and the changing fancies of a nature over which he
seemed, at times, to have almost entirely lost control. The hero,
the wonderful young Parisian in whom the romantic and the
scientific temperaments were so strangely blended, became to him a
kind of prefiguring type of himself. And, indeed, the whole book
seemed to him to contain the story of his own life, written before
he had lived it.

In one point he was more fortunate than the novel's fantastic
hero. He never knew—never, indeed, had any cause to know—that
somewhat grotesque dread of mirrors, and polished metal surfaces,
and still water which came upon the young Parisian so early in his
life, and was occasioned by the sudden decay of a beau that had
once, apparently, been so remarkable. It was with an almost cruel
joy— and perhaps in nearly every joy, as certainly in every
pleasure, cruelty has its place—that he used to read the latter
part of the book, with its really tragic, if somewhat
overemphasized, account of the sorrow and despair of one who had
himself lost what in others, and the world, he had most dearly
valued.

For the wonderful beauty that had so fascinated Basil Hallward,
and many others besides him, seemed never to leave him. Even those
who had heard the most evil things against him— and from time to
time strange rumours about his mode of life crept through London
and became the chatter of the clubs— could not believe anything to
his dishonour when they saw him. He had always the look of one who
had kept himself unspotted from the world. Men who talked grossly
became silent when Dorian Gray entered the room. There was
something in the purity of his face that rebuked them. His mere
presence seemed to recall to them the memory of the innocence that
they had tarnished. They wondered how one so charming and graceful
as he was could have escaped the stain of an age that was at once
sordid and sensual.

Often, on returning home from one of those mysterious and
prolonged absences that gave rise to such strange conjecture among
those who were his friends, or thought that they were so, he
himself would creep upstairs to the locked room, open the door with
the key that never left him now, and stand, with a mirror, in front
of the portrait that Basil Hallward had painted of him, looking now
at the evil and aging face on the canvas, and now at the fair young
face that laughed back at him from the polished glass. The very
sharpness of the contrast used to quicken his sense of pleasure. He
grew more and more enamoured of his own beauty, more and more
interested in the corruption of his own soul. He would examine with
minute care, and sometimes with a monstrous and terrible delight,
the hideous lines that seared the wrinkling forehead or crawled
around the heavy sensual mouth, wondering sometimes which were the
more horrible, the signs of sin or the signs of age. He would place
his white hands beside the coarse bloated hands of the picture, and
smile. He mocked the misshapen body and the failing limbs.

There were moments, indeed, at night, when, lying sleepless in
his own delicately scented chamber, or in the sordid room of the
little ill-famed tavern near the docks which, under an assumed name
and in disguise, it was his habit to frequent, he would think of
the ruin he had brought upon his soul with a pity that was all the
more poignant because it was purely selfish. But moments such as
these were rare. That curiosity about life which Lord Henry had
first stirred in him, as they sat together in the garden of their
friend, seemed to increase with gratification. The more he knew,
the more he desired to know. He had mad hungers that grew more
ravenous as he fed them.

Yet he was not really reckless, at any rate in his relations to
society. Once or twice every month during the winter, and on each
Wednesday evening while the season lasted, he would throw open to
the world his beautiful house and have the most celebrated
musicians of the day to charm his guests with the wonders of their
art. His little dinners, in the settling of which Lord Henry always
assisted him, were noted as much for the careful selection and
placing of those invited, as for the exquisite taste shown in the
decoration of the table, with its subtle symphonic arrangements of
exotic flowers, and embroidered cloths, and antique plate of gold
and silver. Indeed, there were many, especially among the very
young men, who saw, or fancied that they saw, in Dorian Gray the
true realization of a type of which they had often dreamed in Eton
or Oxford days, a type that was to combine something of the real
culture of the scholar with all the grace and distinction and
perfect manner of a citizen of the world. To them he seemed to be
of the company of those whom Dante describes as having sought to
"make themselves perfect by the worship of beauty." Like Gautier,
he was one for whom "the visible world existed."

