
He discovered wonderful stories, also, about jewels. In
Alphonso's Clericalis Disciplina a serpent was mentioned with eyes
of real jacinth, and in the romantic history of Alexander, the
Conqueror of Emathia was said to have found in the vale of Jordan
snakes "with collars of real emeralds growing on their backs."
There was a gem in the brain of the dragon, Philostratus told us,
and "by the exhibition of golden letters and a scarlet robe" the
monster could be thrown into a magical sleep and slain. According
to the great alchemist, Pierre de Boniface, the diamond rendered a
man invisible, and the agate of India made him eloquent. The
cornelian appeased anger, and the hyacinth provoked sleep, and the
amethyst drove away the fumes of wine. The garnet cast out demons,
and the hydropicus deprived the moon of her colour. The selenite
waxed and waned with the moon, and the meloceus, that discovers
thieves, could be affected only by the blood of kids. Leonardus
Camillus had seen a white stone taken from the brain of a newly
killed toad, that was a certain antidote against poison. The
bezoar, that was found in the heart of the Arabian deer, was a
charm that could cure the plague. In the nests of Arabian birds was
the aspilates, that, according to Democritus, kept the wearer from
any danger by fire.

The King of Ceilan rode through his city with a large ruby in
his hand, as the ceremony of his coronation. The gates of the
palace of John the Priest were "made of sardius, with the horn of
the horned snake inwrought, so that no man might bring poison
within." Over the gable were "two golden apples, in which were two
carbuncles," so that the gold might shine by day and the carbuncles
by night. In Lodge's strange romance 'A Margarite of America', it
was stated that in the chamber of the queen one could behold "all
the chaste ladies of the world, inchased out of silver, looking
through fair mirrours of chrysolites, carbuncles, sapphires, and
greene emeraults." Marco Polo had seen the inhabitants of Zipangu
place rose-coloured pearls in the mouths of the dead. A sea-monster
had been enamoured of the pearl that the diver brought to King
Perozes, and had slain the thief, and mourned for seven moons over
its loss. When the Huns lured the king into the great pit, he flung
it away— Procopius tells the story—nor was it ever found again,
though the Emperor Anastasius offered five hundred-weight of gold
pieces for it. The King of Malabar had shown to a certain Venetian
a rosary of three hundred and four pearls, one for every god that
he worshipped.

When the Duke de Valentinois, son of Alexander VI, visited Louis
XII of France, his horse was loaded with gold leaves, according to
Brantome, and his cap had double rows of rubies that threw out a
great light. Charles of England had ridden in stirrups hung with
four hundred and twenty-one diamonds. Richard II had a coat, valued
at thirty thousand marks, which was covered with balas rubies. Hall
described Henry VIII, on his way to the Tower previous to his
coronation, as wearing "a jacket of raised gold, the placard
embroidered with diamonds and other rich stones, and a great
bauderike about his neck of large balasses." The favourites of
James I wore ear-rings of emeralds set in gold filigrane. Edward II
gave to Piers Gaveston a suit of red-gold armour studded with
jacinths, a collar of gold roses set with turquoise-stones, and a
skull-cap parseme with pearls. Henry II wore jewelled gloves
reaching to the elbow, and had a hawk-glove sewn with twelve rubies
and fifty-two great orients. The ducal hat of Charles the Rash, the
last Duke of Burgundy of his race, was hung with pear-shaped pearls
and studded with sapphires.

How exquisite life had once been! How gorgeous in its pomp and
decoration! Even to read of the luxury of the dead was
wonderful.

Then he turned his attention to embroideries and to the
tapestries that performed the office of frescoes in the chill rooms
of the northern nations of Europe. As he investigated the subject—
and he always had an extraordinary faculty of becoming absolutely
absorbed for the moment in whatever he took up—he was almost
saddened by the reflection of the ruin that time brought on
beautiful and wonderful things. He, at any rate, had escaped that.
Summer followed summer, and the yellow jonquils bloomed and died
many times, and nights of horror repeated the story of their shame,
but he was unchanged. No winter marred his face or stained his
flowerlike bloom. How different it was with material things! Where
had they passed to? Where was the great crocus-coloured robe, on
which the gods fought against the giants, that had been worked by
brown girls for the pleasure of Athena? Where the huge velarium
that Nero had stretched across the Colosseum at Rome, that Titan
sail of purple on which was represented the starry sky, and Apollo
driving a chariot drawn by white, gilt-reined steeds? He longed to
see the curious table-napkins wrought for the Priest of the Sun, on
which were displayed all the dainties and viands that could be
wanted for a feast; the mortuary cloth of King Chilperic, with its
three hundred golden bees; the fantastic robes that excited the
indignation of the Bishop of Pontus and were figured with "lions,
panthers, bears, dogs, forests, rocks, hunters—all, in fact, that a
painter can copy from nature"; and the coat that Charles of Orleans
once wore, on the sleeves of which were embroidered the verses of a
song beginning "Madame, je suis tout joyeux," the musical
accompaniment of the words being wrought in gold thread, and each
note, of square shape in those days, formed with four pearls. He
read of the room that was prepared at the palace at Rheims for the
use of Queen Joan of Burgundy and was decorated with "thirteen
hundred and twenty-one parrots, made in broidery, and blazoned with
the king's arms, and five hundred and sixty-one butterflies, whose
wings were similarly ornamented with the arms of the queen, the
whole worked in gold." Catherine de Medicis had a mourning-bed made
for her of black velvet powdered with crescents and suns. Its
curtains were of damask, with leafy wreaths and garlands, figured
upon a gold and silver ground, and fringed along the edges with
broideries of pearls, and it stood in a room hung with rows of the
queen's devices in cut black velvet upon cloth of silver. Louis XIV
had gold embroidered caryatides fifteen feet high in his apartment.
The state bed of Sobieski, King of Poland, was made of Smyrna gold
brocade embroidered in turquoises with verses from the Koran. Its
supports were of silver gilt, beautifully chased, and profusely set
with enamelled and jewelled medallions. It had been taken from the
Turkish camp before Vienna, and the standard of Mohammed had stood
beneath the tremulous gilt of its canopy.

And so, for a whole year, he sought to accumulate the most
exquisite specimens that he could find of textile and embroidered
work, getting the dainty Delhi muslins, finely wrought with
gold-thread palmates and stitched over with iridescent beetles'
wings; the Dacca gauzes, that from their transparency are known in
the East as "woven air," and "running water," and "evening dew";
strange figured cloths from Java; elaborate yellow Chinese
hangings; books bound in tawny satins or fair blue silks and
wrought with fleurs-de-lis, birds and images; veils of lacis worked
in Hungary point; Sicilian brocades and stiff Spanish velvets;
Georgian work, with its gilt coins, and Japanese Foukousas, with
their green-toned golds and their marvellously plumaged birds.

He had a special passion, also, for ecclesiastical vestments, as
indeed he had for everything connected with the service of the
Church. In the long cedar chests that lined the west gallery of his
house, he had stored away many rare and beautiful specimens of what
is really the raiment of the Bride of Christ, who must wear purple
and jewels and fine linen that she may hide the pallid macerated
body that is worn by the suffering that she seeks for and wounded
by self-inflicted pain. He possessed a gorgeous cope of crimson
silk and gold-thread damask, figured with a repeating pattern of
golden pomegranates set in six-petalled formal blossoms, beyond
which on either side was the pine-apple device wrought in
seed-pearls. The orphreys were divided into panels representing
scenes from the life of the Virgin, and the coronation of the
Virgin was figured in coloured silks upon the hood. This was
Italian work of the fifteenth century. Another cope was of green
velvet, embroidered with heart-shaped groups of acanthus-leaves,
from which spread long-stemmed white blossoms, the details of which
were picked out with silver thread and coloured crystals. The morse
bore a seraph's head in gold-thread raised work. The orphreys were
woven in a diaper of red and gold silk, and were starred with
medallions of many saints and martyrs, among whom was St.
Sebastian. He had chasubles, also, of amber-coloured silk, and blue
silk and gold brocade, and yellow silk damask and cloth of gold,
figured with representations of the Passion and Crucifixion of
Christ, and embroidered with lions and peacocks and other emblems;
dalmatics of white satin and pink silk damask, decorated with
tulips and dolphins and fleurs-de-lis; altar frontals of crimson
velvet and blue linen; and many corporals, chalice-veils, and
sudaria. In the mystic offices to which such things were put, there
was something that quickened his imagination.

For these treasures, and everything that he collected in his
lovely house, were to be to him means of forgetfulness, modes by
which he could escape, for a season, from the fear that seemed to
him at times to be almost too great to be borne. Upon the walls of
the lonely locked room where he had spent so much of his boyhood,
he had hung with his own hands the terrible portrait whose changing
features showed him the real degradation of his life, and in front
of it had draped the purple-and-gold pall as a curtain. For weeks
he would not go there, would forget the hideous painted thing, and
get back his light heart, his wonderful joyousness, his passionate
absorption in mere existence. Then, suddenly, some night he would
creep out of the house, go down to dreadful places near Blue Gate
Fields, and stay there, day after day, until he was driven away. On
his return he would sit in front of the her times, with that pride
of individualism that is half the fascination of sin, and smiling
with secret pleasure at the misshapen shadow that had to bear the
burden that should have been his own.

After a few years he could not endure to be long out of England,
and gave up the villa that he had shared at Trouville with Lord
Henry, as well as the little white walled-in house at Algiers where
they had more than once spent the winter. He hated to be separated
from the picture that was such a part of his life, and was also
afraid that during his absence some one might gain access to the
room, in spite of the elaborate bars that he had caused to be
placed upon the door.

He was quite conscious that this would tell them nothing. It was
true that the portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and
ugliness of the face, its marked likeness to himself; but what
could they learn from that? He would laugh at any one who tried to
taunt him. He had not painted it. What was it to him how vile and
full of shame it looked? Even if he told them, would they believe
it?

