
"I don't wish to know anything about them. I love scandals about
other people, but scandals about myself don't interest me. They
have not got the charm of novelty."

"They must interest you, Dorian. Every gentleman is interested
in his good name. You don't want people to talk of you as something
vile and degraded. Of course, you have your position, and your
wealth, and all that kind of thing. But position and wealth are not
everything. Mind you, I don't believe these rumours at all. At
least, I can't believe them when I see you. Sin is a thing that
writes itself across a man's face. It cannot be concealed. People
talk sometimes of secret vices. There are no such things. If a
wretched man has a vice, it shows itself in the lines of his mouth,
the droop of his eyelids, the moulding of his hands even.
Somebody—I won't mention his name, but you know him—came to me last
year to have his portrait done. I had never seen him before, and
had never heard anything about him at the time, though I have heard
a good deal since. He offered an extravagant price. I refused him.
There was something in the shape of his fingers that I hated. I
know now that I was quite right in what I fancied about him. His
life is dreadful. But you, Dorian, with your pure, bright, innocent
face, and your marvellous untroubled youth— I can't believe
anything against you. And yet I see you very seldom, and you never
come down to the studio now, and when I am away from you, and I
hear all these hideous things that people are whispering about you,
I don't know what to say. Why is it, Dorian, that a man like the
Duke of Berwick leaves the room of a club when you enter it? Why is
it that so many gentlemen in London will neither go to your house
or invite you to theirs? You used to be a friend of Lord Staveley.
I met him at dinner last week. Your name happened to come up in
conversation, in connection with the miniatures you have lent to
the exhibition at the Dudley. Staveley curled his lip and said that
you might have the most artistic tastes, but that you were a man
whom no pure-minded girl should be allowed to know, and whom no
chaste woman should sit in the same room with. I reminded him that
I was a friend of yours, and asked him what he meant. He told me.
He told me right out before everybody. It was horrible! Why is your
friendship so fatal to young men? There was that wretched boy in
the Guards who committed suicide. You were his great friend. There
was Sir Henry Ashton, who had to leave England with a tarnished
name. You and he were inseparable. What about Adrian Singleton and
his dreadful end? What about Lord Kent's only son and his career? I
met his father yesterday in St. James's Street. He seemed broken
with shame and sorrow. What about the young Duke of Perth? What
sort of life has he got now? What gentleman would associate with
him?"

"Stop, Basil. You are talking about things of which you know
nothing," said Dorian Gray, biting his lip, and with a note of
infinite contempt in his voice. "You ask me why Berwick leaves a
room when I enter it. It is because I know everything about his
life, not because he knows anything about mine. With such blood as
he has in his veins, how could his record be clean? You ask me
about Henry Ashton and young Perth. Did I teach the one his vices,
and the other his debauchery? If Kent's silly son takes his wife
from the streets, what is that to me? If Adrian Singleton writes
his friend's name across a bill, am I his keeper? I know how people
chatter in England. The middle classes air their moral prejudices
over their gross dinner-tables, and whisper about what they call
the profligacies of their betters in order to try and pretend that
they are in smart society and on intimate terms with the people
they slander. In this country, it is enough for a man to have
distinction and brains for every common tongue to wag against him.
And what sort of lives do these people, who pose as being moral,
lead themselves? My dear fellow, you forget that we are in the
native land of the hypocrite."

"Dorian," cried Hallward, "that is not the question. England is
bad enough I know, and English society is all wrong. That is the
reason why I want you to be fine. You have not been fine. One has a
right to judge of a man by the effect he has over his friends.
Yours seem to lose all sense of honour, of goodness, of purity. You
have filled them with a madness for pleasure. They have gone down
into the depths. You led them there. Yes: you led them there, and
yet you can smile, as you are smiling now. And there is worse
behind. I know you and Harry are inseparable. Surely for that
reason, if for none other, you should not have made his sister's
name a by-word."

"Take care, Basil. You go too far."

"I must speak, and you must listen. You shall listen. When you
met Lady Gwendolen, not a breath of scandal had ever touched her.
Is there a single decent woman in London now who would drive with
her in the park? Why, even her children are not allowed to live
with her. Then there are other stories— stories that you have been
seen creeping at dawn out of dreadful houses and slinking in
disguise into the foulest dens in London. Are they true? Can they
be true? When I first heard them, I laughed. I hear them now, and
they make me shudder. What about your country-house and the life
that is led there? Dorian, you don't know what is said about you. I
won't tell you that I don't want to preach to you. I remember Harry
saying once that every man who turned himself into an amateur
curate for the moment always began by saying that, and then
proceeded to break his word. I do want to preach to you. I want you
to lead such a life as will make the world respect you. I want you
to have a clean name and a fair record. I want you to get rid of
the dreadful people you associate with. Don't shrug your shoulders
like that. Don't be so indifferent. You have a wonderful influence.
Let it be for good, not for evil. They say that you corrupt every
one with whom you become intimate, and that it is quite sufficient
for you to enter a house for shame of some kind to follow after. I
don't know whether it is so or not. How should I know? But it is
said of you. I am told things that it seems impossible to doubt.
Lord Gloucester was one of my greatest friends at Oxford. He showed
me a letter that his wife had written to him when she was dying
alone in her villa at Mentone. Your name was implicated in the most
terrible confession I ever read. I told him that it was absurd—that
I knew you thoroughly and that you were incapable of anything of
the kind. Know you? I wonder do I know you? Before I could answer
that, I should have to see your soul."

"To see my soul!" muttered Dorian Gray, starting up from the
sofa and turning almost white from fear.

"Yes," answered Hallward gravely, and with deep-toned sorrow in
his voice, "to see your soul. But only God can do that."

A bitter laugh of mockery broke from the lips of the younger
man. "You shall see it yourself, to-night!" he cried, seizing a
lamp from the table. "Come: it is your own handiwork. Why shouldn't
you look at it? You can tell the world all about it afterwards, if
you choose. Nobody would believe you. If they did believe you, they
would like me all the better for it. I know the age better than you
do, though you will prate about it so tediously. Come, I tell you.
You have chattered enough about corruption. Now you shall look on
it face to face."

There was the madness of pride in every word he uttered. He
stamped his foot upon the ground in his boyish insolent manner. He
felt a terrible joy at the thought that some one else was to share
his secret, and that the man who had painted the portrait that was
the origin of all his shame was to be burdened for the rest of his
life with the hideous memory of what he had done.

