"Wait! Wait! I want to tell you something!"

They presently stopped and turned around. When he got to where
they were, he began unfolding his secret, and they listened moodily
till at last they saw the "point" he was driving at, and then they
set up a war-whoop of applause and said it was "splendid!" and said
if he had told them at first, they wouldn't have started away. He
made a plausible excuse; but his real reason had been the fear that
not even the secret would keep them with him any very great length
of time, and so he had meant to hold it in reserve as a last
seduction.

The lads came gayly back and went at their sports again with a
will, chattering all the time about Tom's stupendous plan and
admiring the genius of it. After a dainty egg and fish dinner, Tom
said he wanted to learn to smoke, now. Joe caught at the idea and
said he would like to try, too. So Huck made pipes and filled them.
These novices had never smoked anything before but cigars made of
grape-vine, and they "bit" the tongue, and were not considered
manly anyway.

Now they stretched themselves out on their elbows and began to
puff, charily, and with slender confidence. The smoke had an
unpleasant taste, and they gagged a little, but Tom said:

"Why, it's just as easy! If I'd a knowed this was all, I'd a
learnt long ago."

"So would I," said Joe. "It's just nothing."

"Why, many a time I've looked at people smoking, and thought
well I wish I could do that; but I never thought I could," said
Tom.

"That's just the way with me, hain't it, Huck? You've heard me
talk just that way — haven't you, Huck? I'll leave it to Huck if I
haven't."

"Yes — heaps of times," said Huck.

"Well, I have too," said Tom; "oh, hundreds of times. Once down
by the slaughter-house. Don't you remember, Huck? Bob Tanner was
there, and Johnny Miller, and Jeff Thatcher, when I said it. Don't
you remember, Huck, 'bout me saying that?"

"Yes, that's so," said Huck. "That was the day after I lost a
white alley. No, 'twas the day before."
