"Yes. Well, there is company there, I reckon. Better give it
up."

"Give it up, and I just leaving this country forever! Give it up
and maybe never have another chance. I tell you again, as I've told
you before, I don't care for her swag — you may have it. But her
husband was rough on me — many times he was rough on me — and
mainly he was the justice of the peace that jugged me for a
vagrant. And that ain't all. It ain't a millionth part of it! He
had me horsewhipped! — horsewhipped in front of the jail, like a
nigger! — with all the town looking on! Horsewhipped! — do you
understand? He took advantage of me and died. But I'll take it out
of her."

"Oh, don't kill her! Don't do that!"

"Kill? Who said anything about killing? I would kill him if he
was here; but not her. When you want to get revenge on a woman you
don't kill her — bosh! you go for her looks. You slit her nostrils
— you notch her ears like a sow!"

"By God, that's —"

"Keep your opinion to yourself! It will be safest for you. I'll
tie her to the bed. If she bleeds to death, is that my fault? I'll
not cry, if she does. My friend, you'll help me in this thing — for
my sake — that's why you're here — I mightn't be able alone. If you
flinch, I'll kill you. Do you understand that? And if I have to
kill you, I'll kill her — and then I reckon nobody'll ever know
much about who done this business."

"Well, if it's got to be done, let's get at it. The quicker the
better — I'm all in a shiver."

"Do it now? And company there? Look here — I'll get suspicious
of you, first thing you know. No — we'll wait till the lights are
out — there's no hurry."

Huck felt that a silence was going to ensue — a thing still more
awful than any amount of murderous talk; so he held his breath and
stepped gingerly back; planted his foot carefully and firmly, after
balancing, one-legged, in a precarious way and almost toppling
over, first on one side and then on the other. He took another step
back, with the same elaboration and the same risks; then another
and another, and — a twig snapped under his foot! His breath
stopped and he listened. There was no sound — the stillness was
perfect. His gratitude was measureless. Now he turned in his
tracks, between the walls of sumach bushes — turned himself as
carefully as if he were a ship — and then stepped quickly but
cautiously along. When he emerged at the quarry he felt secure, and
so he picked up his nimble heels and flew. Down, down he sped, till
he reached the Welshman's. He banged at the door, and presently the
heads of the old man and his two stalwart sons were thrust from
windows.

"What's the row there? Who's banging? What do you want?"

"Let me in — quick! I'll tell everything."
