"I was awful scared," said Huck, "and I run. I took out when the
pistols went off, and I didn't stop for three mile. I've come now
becuz I wanted to know about it, you know; and I come before
daylight becuz I didn't want to run across them devils, even if
they was dead."

"Well, poor chap, you do look as if you'd had a hard night of it
— but there's a bed here for you when you've had your breakfast.
No, they ain't dead, lad — we are sorry enough for that. You see we
knew right where to put our hands on them, by your description; so
we crept along on tiptoe till we got within fifteen feet of them —
dark as a cellar that sumach path was — and just then I found I was
going to sneeze. It was the meanest kind of luck! I tried to keep
it back, but no use — 'twas bound to come, and it did come! I was
in the lead with my pistol raised, and when the sneeze started
those scoundrels a-rustling to get out of the path, I sung out,
'Fire boys!' and blazed away at the place where the rustling was.
So did the boys. But they were off in a jiffy, those villains, and
we after them, down through the woods. I judge we never touched
them. They fired a shot apiece as they started, but their bullets
whizzed by and didn't do us any harm. As soon as we lost the sound
of their feet we quit chasing, and went down and stirred up the
constables. They got a posse together, and went off to guard the
river bank, and as soon as it is light the sheriff and a gang are
going to beat up the woods. My boys will be with them presently. I
wish we had some sort of description of those rascals — 'twould
help a good deal. But you couldn't see what they were like, in the
dark, lad, I suppose?"

"Oh yes; I saw them down-town and follered them."

"Splendid! Describe them — describe them, my boy!"

"One's the old deaf and dumb Spaniard that's ben around here
once or twice, and t'other's a mean-looking, ragged —"

"That's enough, lad, we know the men! Happened on them in the
woods back of the widow's one day, and they slunk away. Off with
you, boys, and tell the sheriff — get your breakfast to-morrow
morning!"

The Welshman's sons departed at once. As they were leaving the
room Huck sprang up and exclaimed:

"Oh, please don't tell anybody it was me that blowed on them!
Oh, please!"

"All right if you say it, Huck, but you ought to have the credit
of what you did."

"Oh no, no! Please don't tell!"

When the young men were gone, the old Welshman said:
