
"Of burglar's tools. Why, what's the matter with you?"

Huck sank back, panting gently, but deeply, unutterably
grateful. The Welshman eyed him gravely, curiously — and presently
said:

"Yes, burglar's tools. That appears to relieve you a good deal.
But what did give you that turn? What were you expecting we'd
found?"

Huck was in a close place — the inquiring eye was upon him — he
would have given anything for material for a plausible answer —
nothing suggested itself — the inquiring eye was boring deeper and
deeper — a senseless reply offered — there was no time to weigh it,
so at a venture he uttered it — feebly:

"Sunday-school books, maybe."

Poor Huck was too distressed to smile, but the old man laughed
loud and joyously, shook up the details of his anatomy from head to
foot, and ended by saying that such a laugh was money in a-man's
pocket, because it cut down the doctor's bill like everything. Then
he added:

"Poor old chap, you're white and jaded — you ain't well a bit —
no wonder you're a little flighty and off your balance. But you'll
come out of it. Rest and sleep will fetch you out all right, I
hope."

Huck was irritated to think he had been such a goose and
betrayed such a suspicious excitement, for he had dropped the idea
that the parcel brought from the tavern was the treasure, as soon
as he had heard the talk at the widow's stile. He had only thought
it was not the treasure, however — he had not known that it wasn't
— and so the suggestion of a captured bundle was too much for his
self-possession. But on the whole he felt glad the little episode
had happened, for now he knew beyond all question that that bundle
was not the bundle, and so his mind was at rest and exceedingly
comfortable. In fact, everything seemed to be drifting just in the
right direction, now; the treasure must be still in No. 2, the men
would be captured and jailed that day, and he and Tom could seize
the gold that night without any trouble or any fear of
interruption.

Just as breakfast was completed there was a knock at the door.
Huck jumped for a hiding-place, for he had no mind to be connected
even remotely with the late event. The Welshman admitted several
ladies and gentlemen, among them the Widow Douglas, and noticed
that groups of citizens were climbing up the hill — to stare at the
stile. So the news had spread. The Welshman had to tell the story
of the night to the visitors. The widow's gratitude for her
preservation was outspoken.

"Don't say a word about it, madam. There's another that you're
more beholden to than you are to me and my boys, maybe, but he
don't allow me to tell his name. We wouldn't have been there but
for him."

