"It's one of the widow's parties that she's always having. This
time it's for the Welshman and his sons, on account of that scrape
they helped her out of the other night. And say — I can tell you
something, if you want to know."

"Well, what?"

"Why, old Mr. Jones is going to try to spring something on the
people here to-night, but I overheard him tell auntie to-day about
it, as a secret, but I reckon it's not much of a secret now.
Everybody knows — the widow, too, for all she tries to let on she
don't. Mr. Jones was bound Huck should be here — couldn't get along
with his grand secret without Huck, you know!"

"Secret about what, Sid?"

"About Huck tracking the robbers to the widow's. I reckon Mr.
Jones was going to make a grand time over his surprise, but I bet
you it will drop pretty flat."

Sid chuckled in a very contented and satisfied way.

"Sid, was it you that told?"

"Oh, never mind who it was. somebody told — that's enough."

"Sid, there's only one person in this town mean enough to do
that, and that's you. If you had been in Huck's place you'd 'a'
sneaked down the hill and never told anybody on the robbers. You
can't do any but mean things, and you can't bear to see anybody
praised for doing good ones. There — no thanks, as the widow says"
— and Tom cuffed Sid's ears and helped him to the door with several
kicks. "Now go and tell auntie if you dare — and to-morrow you'll
catch it!"

Some minutes later the widow's guests were at the supper-table,
and a dozen children were propped up at little side-tables in the
same room, after the fashion of that country and that day. At the
proper time Mr. Jones made his little speech, in which he thanked
the widow for the honor she was doing himself and his sons, but
said that there was another person whose modesty —

And so forth and so on. He sprung his secret about Huck's share
in the adventure in the finest dramatic manner he was master of,
but the surprise it occasioned was largely counterfeit and not as
clamorous and effusive as it might have been under happier
circumstances. However, the widow made a pretty fair show of
astonishment, and heaped so many compliments and so much gratitude
upon Huck that he almost forgot the nearly intolerable discomfort
of his new clothes in the entirely intolerable discomfort of being
set up as a target for everybody's gaze and everybody's
laudations.
