"Well, everybody does that way, Huck."

"Tom, it don't make no difference. I ain't everybody, and I
can't stand it. It's awful to be tied up so. And grub comes too
easy — I don't take no interest in vittles, that way. I got to ask
to go a-fishing; I got to ask to go in a-swimming — dern'd if I
hain't got to ask to do everything. Well, I'd got to talk so nice
it wasn't no comfort — I'd got to go up in the attic and rip out
awhile, every day, to git a taste in my mouth, or I'd a died, Tom.
The widder wouldn't let me smoke; she wouldn't let me yell, she
wouldn't let me gape, nor stretch, nor scratch, before folks —"
[Then with a spasm of special irritation and injury] — "And dad
fetch it, she prayed all the time! I never see such a woman! I had
to shove, Tom — I just had to. And besides, that school's going to
open, and I'd a had to go to it — well, I wouldn't stand that, Tom.
Looky-here, Tom, being rich ain't what it's cracked up to be. It's
just worry and worry, and sweat and sweat, and a-wishing you was
dead all the time. Now these clothes suits me, and this bar'l suits
me, and I ain't ever going to shake 'em any more. Tom, I wouldn't
ever got into all this trouble if it hadn't 'a' ben for that money;
now you just take my sheer of it along with your'n, and gimme a
ten-center sometimes — not many times, becuz I don't give a dern
for a thing 'thout it's tollable hard to git — and you go and beg
off for me with the widder."

"Oh, Huck, you know I can't do that. 'Tain't fair; and besides
if you'll try this thing just a while longer you'll come to like
it."

"Like it! Yes — the way I'd like a hot stove if I was to set on
it long enough. No, Tom, I won't be rich, and I won't live in them
cussed smothery houses. I like the woods, and the river, and
hogsheads, and I'll stick to 'em, too. Blame it all! just as we'd
got guns, and a cave, and all just fixed to rob, here this dern
foolishness has got to come up and spile it all!"

Tom saw his opportunity —

"Lookyhere, Huck, being rich ain't going to keep me back from
turning robber."

"No! Oh, good-licks; are you in real dead-wood earnest,
Tom?"

"Just as dead earnest as I'm sitting here. But Huck, we can't
let you into the gang if you ain't respectable, you know."

Huck's joy was quenched.

"Can't let me in, Tom? Didn't you let me go for a pirate?"

"Yes, but that's different. A robber is more high-toned than
what a pirate is — as a general thing. In most countries they're
awful high up in the nobility — dukes and such."
