
"Look at him, Jim! He's a going up there. Say — look! he's a
going to shake hands with him — he is shaking hands with him! By
jings, don't you wish you was Jeff?"

Mr. Walters fell to "showing off," with all sorts of official
bustlings and activities, giving orders, delivering judgments,
discharging directions here, there, everywhere that he could find a
target. The librarian "showed off" — running hither and thither
with his arms full of books and making a deal of the splutter and
fuss that insect authority delights in. The young lady teachers
"showed off" — bending sweetly over pupils that were lately being
boxed, lifting pretty warning fingers at bad little boys and
patting good ones lovingly. The young gentlemen teachers "showed
off" with small scoldings and other little displays of authority
and fine attention to discipline — and most of the teachers, of
both sexes, found business up at the library, by the pulpit; and it
was business that frequently had to be done over again two or three
times (with much seeming vexation). The little girls "showed off"
in various ways, and the little boys "showed off" with such
diligence that the air was thick with paper wads and the murmur of
scufflings. And above it all the great man sat and beamed a
majestic judicial smile upon all the house, and warmed himself in
the sun of his own grandeur — for he was "showing off," too.

There was only one thing wanting to make Mr. Walters' ecstasy
complete, and that was a chance to deliver a Bible-prize and
exhibit a prodigy. Several pupils had a few yellow tickets, but
none had enough — he had been around among the star pupils
inquiring. He would have given worlds, now, to have that German lad
back again with a sound mind.

And now at this moment, when hope was dead, Tom Sawyer came
forward with nine yellow tickets, nine red tickets, and ten blue
ones, and demanded a Bible. This was a thunderbolt out of a clear
sky. Walters was not expecting an application from this source for
the next ten years. But there was no getting around it — here were
the certified checks, and they were good for their face. Tom was
therefore elevated to a place with the Judge and the other elect,
and the great news was announced from headquarters. It was the most
stunning surprise of the decade, and so profound was the sensation
that it lifted the new hero up to the judicial one's altitude, and
the school had two marvels to gaze upon in place of one. The boys
were all eaten up with envy — but those that suffered the bitterest
pangs were those who perceived too late that they themselves had
contributed to this hated splendor by trading tickets to Tom for
the wealth he had amassed in selling whitewashing privileges. These
despised themselves, as being the dupes of a wily fraud, a guileful
snake in the grass.

The prize was delivered to Tom with as much effusion as the
superintendent could pump up under the circumstances; but it lacked
somewhat of the true gush, for the poor fellow's instinct taught
him that there was a mystery here that could not well bear the
light, perhaps; it was simply preposterous that this boy had
warehoused two thousand sheaves of Scriptural wisdom on his
premises — a dozen would strain his capacity, without a doubt.

Amy Lawrence was proud and glad, and she tried to make Tom see
it in her face — but he wouldn't look. She wondered; then she was
just a grain troubled; next a dim suspicion came and went — came
again; she watched; a furtive glance told her worlds — and then her
heart broke, and she was jealous, and angry, and the tears came and
she hated everybody. Tom most of all (she thought).

Tom was introduced to the Judge; but his tongue was tied, his
breath would hardly come, his heart quaked — partly because of the
awful greatness of the man, but mainly because he was her parent.
He would have liked to fall down and worship him, if it were in the
dark. The Judge put his hand on Tom's head and called him a fine
little man, and asked him what his name was. The boy stammered,
gasped, and got it out:

"Tom."

"Oh, no, not Tom — it is —"

"Thomas."

