Then he tossed the marble away pettishly, and stood cogitating.
The truth was, that a superstition of his had failed, here, which
he and all his comrades had always looked upon as infallible. If
you buried a marble with certain necessary incantations, and left
it alone a fortnight, and then opened the place with the
incantation he had just used, you would find that all the marbles
you had ever lost had gathered themselves together there, meantime,
no matter how widely they had been separated. But now, this thing
had actually and unquestionably failed. Tom's whole structure of
faith was shaken to its foundations. He had many a time heard of
this thing succeeding but never of its failing before. It did not
occur to him that he had tried it several times before, himself,
but could never find the hiding-places afterward. He puzzled over
the matter some time, and finally decided that some witch had
interfered and broken the charm. He thought he would satisfy
himself on that point; so he searched around till he found a small
sandy spot with a little funnel-shaped depression in it. He laid
himself down and put his mouth close to this depression and called
—

"Doodle-bug, doodle-bug, tell me what I want to know!
Doodle-bug, doodle-bug, tell me what I want to know!"

The sand began to work, and presently a small black bug appeared
for a second and then darted under again in a fright.

"He dasn't tell! So it was a witch that done it. I just knowed
it."

He well knew the futility of trying to contend against witches,
so he gave up discouraged. But it occurred to him that he might as
well have the marble he had just thrown away, and therefore he went
and made a patient search for it. But he could not find it. Now he
went back to his treasure-house and carefully placed himself just
as he had been standing when he tossed the marble away; then he
took another marble from his pocket and tossed it in the same way,
saying:

"Brother, go find your brother!"

He watched where it stopped, and went there and looked. But it
must have fallen short or gone too far; so he tried twice more. The
last repetition was successful. The two marbles lay within a foot
of each other.

Just here the blast of a toy tin trumpet came faintly down the
green aisles of the forest. Tom flung off his jacket and trousers,
turned a suspender into a belt, raked away some brush behind the
rotten log, disclosing a rude bow and arrow, a lath sword and a tin
trumpet, and in a moment had seized these things and bounded away,
barelegged, with fluttering shirt. He presently halted under a
great elm, blew an answering blast, and then began to tiptoe and
look warily out, this way and that. He said cautiously — to an
imaginary company:

"Hold, my merry men! Keep hid till I blow."

Now appeared Joe Harper, as airily clad and elaborately armed as
Tom. Tom called:

"Hold! Who comes here into Sherwood Forest without my pass?"
