"I know you was meaning for the best, aunty, and so was I with
Peter. It done him good, too. I never see him get around so since
—"

"Oh, go 'long with you, Tom, before you aggravate me again. And
you try and see if you can't be a good boy, for once, and you
needn't take any more medicine."

Tom reached school ahead of time. It was noticed that this
strange thing had been occurring every day latterly. And now, as
usual of late, he hung about the gate of the schoolyard instead of
playing with his comrades. He was sick, he said, and he looked it.
He tried to seem to be looking everywhere but whither he really was
looking — down the road. Presently Jeff Thatcher hove in sight, and
Tom's face lighted; he gazed a moment, and then turned sorrowfully
away. When Jeff arrived, Tom accosted him; and "led up" warily to
opportunities for remark about Becky, but the giddy lad never could
see the bait. Tom watched and watched, hoping whenever a frisking
frock came in sight, and hating the owner of it as soon as he saw
she was not the right one. At last frocks ceased to appear, and he
dropped hopelessly into the dumps; he entered the empty schoolhouse
and sat down to suffer. Then one more frock passed in at the gate,
and Tom's heart gave a great bound. The next instant he was out,
and "going on" like an Indian; yelling, laughing, chasing boys,
jumping over the fence at risk of life and limb, throwing
handsprings, standing on his head — doing all the heroic things he
could conceive of, and keeping a furtive eye out, all the while, to
see if Becky Thatcher was noticing. But she seemed to be
unconscious of it all; she never looked. Could it be possible that
she was not aware that he was there? He carried his exploits to her
immediate vicinity; came war-whooping around, snatched a boy's cap,
hurled it to the roof of the schoolhouse, broke through a group of
boys, tumbling them in every direction, and fell sprawling,
himself, under Becky's nose, almost upsetting her — and she turned,
with her nose in the air, and he heard her say: "Mf! some people
think they're mighty smart — always showing off!"

Tom's cheeks burned. He gathered himself up and sneaked off,
crushed and crestfallen.




