


Chapter

20
The Prince and the hermit


The high hedge hid him from the house, now; and so, under the
impulse of a deadly fright, he let out all his forces and sped
toward a wood in the distance. &#160;He never looked back until he
had almost gained the shelter of the forest; then he turned and
descried two figures in the distance. That was sufficient; he did
not wait to scan them critically, but hurried on, and never abated
his pace till he was far within the twilight depths of the wood.
Then he stopped; being persuaded that he was now tolerably safe. He
listened intently, but the stillness was profound and solemn—awful,
even, and depressing to the spirits. &#160;At wide intervals his
straining ear did detect sounds, but they were so remote, and
hollow, and mysterious, that they seemed not to be real sounds, but
only the moaning and complaining ghosts of departed ones. &#160;So
the sounds were yet more dreary than the silence which they
interrupted.

It was his purpose, in the beginning, to stay where he was the
rest of the day; but a chill soon invaded his perspiring body, and
he was at last obliged to resume movement in order to get warm. He
struck straight through the forest, hoping to pierce to a road
presently, but he was disappointed in this. &#160;He travelled on
and on; but the farther he went, the denser the wood became,
apparently. &#160;The gloom began to thicken, by-and-by, and the
King realised that the night was coming on. &#160;It made him
shudder to think of spending it in such an uncanny place; so he
tried to hurry faster, but he only made the less speed, for he
could not now see well enough to choose his steps judiciously;
consequently he kept tripping over roots and tangling himself in
vines and briers.

And how glad he was when at last he caught the glimmer of a
light! He approached it warily, stopping often to look about him
and listen. &#160;It came from an unglazed window-opening in a
shabby little hut. &#160;He heard a voice, now, and felt a
disposition to run and hide; but he changed his mind at once, for
this voice was praying, evidently. &#160;He glided to the one
window of the hut, raised himself on tiptoe, and stole a glance
within. &#160;The room was small; its floor was the natural earth,
beaten hard by use; in a corner was a bed of rushes and a ragged
blanket or two; near it was a pail, a cup, a basin, and two or
three pots and pans; there was a short bench and a three-legged
stool; on the hearth the remains of a faggot fire were smouldering;
before a shrine, which was lighted by a single candle, knelt an
aged man, and on an old wooden box at his side lay an open book and
a human skull. &#160;The man was of large, bony frame; his hair and
whiskers were very long and snowy white; he was clothed in a robe
of sheepskins which reached from his neck to his heels.

"A holy hermit!" said the King to himself; "now am I indeed
fortunate."

The hermit rose from his knees; the King knocked. &#160;A deep
voice responded—

"Enter!—but leave sin behind, for the ground whereon thou shalt
stand is holy!"

The King entered, and paused. &#160;The hermit turned a pair of
gleaming, unrestful eyes upon him, and said—
