
Hugo got the help of the tinker whom the King had cowed with the
soldering-iron; they took the boy out on a tinkering tramp, and as
soon as they were out of sight of the camp they threw him down and
the tinker held him while Hugo bound the poultice tight and fast
upon his leg.

The King raged and stormed, and promised to hang the two the
moment the sceptre was in his hand again; but they kept a firm grip
upon him and enjoyed his impotent struggling and jeered at his
threats. &#160;This continued until the poultice began to bite; and
in no long time its work would have been perfected, if there had
been no interruption. &#160;But there was; for about this time the
'slave' who had made the speech denouncing England's laws, appeared
on the scene, and put an end to the enterprise, and stripped off
the poultice and bandage.

The King wanted to borrow his deliverer's cudgel and warm the
jackets of the two rascals on the spot; but the man said no, it
would bring trouble—leave the matter till night; the whole tribe
being together, then, the outside world would not venture to
interfere or interrupt. &#160;He marched the party back to camp and
reported the affair to the Ruffler, who listened, pondered, and
then decided that the King should not be again detailed to beg,
since it was plain he was worthy of something higher and
better—wherefore, on the spot he promoted him from the mendicant
rank and appointed him to steal!

Hugo was overjoyed. &#160;He had already tried to make the King
steal, and failed; but there would be no more trouble of that sort,
now, for of course the King would not dream of defying a distinct
command delivered directly from head-quarters. &#160;So he planned
a raid for that very afternoon, purposing to get the King in the
law's grip in the course of it; and to do it, too, with such
ingenious strategy, that it should seem to be accidental and
unintentional; for the King of the Game-Cocks was popular now, and
the gang might not deal over-gently with an unpopular member who
played so serious a treachery upon him as the delivering him over
to the common enemy, the law.

Very well. &#160;All in good time Hugo strolled off to a
neighbouring village with his prey; and the two drifted slowly up
and down one street after another, the one watching sharply for a
sure chance to achieve his evil purpose, and the other watching as
sharply for a chance to dart away and get free of his infamous
captivity for ever.

Both threw away some tolerably fair-looking opportunities; for
both, in their secret hearts, were resolved to make absolutely sure
work this time, and neither meant to allow his fevered desires to
seduce him into any venture that had much uncertainty about it.

Hugo's chance came first. &#160;For at last a woman approached
who carried a fat package of some sort in a basket. &#160;Hugo's
eyes sparkled with sinful pleasure as he said to himself, "Breath
o' my life, an' I can but put THAT upon him, 'tis good-den and God
keep thee, King of the Game-Cocks!" He waited and watched—outwardly
patient, but inwardly consuming with excitement—till the woman had
passed by, and the time was ripe; then said, in a low voice—

"Tarry here till I come again," and darted stealthily after the
prey.

The King's heart was filled with joy—he could make his escape,
now, if Hugo's quest only carried him far enough away.

But he was to have no such luck. &#160;Hugo crept behind the
woman, snatched the package, and came running back, wrapping it in
an old piece of blanket which he carried on his arm. &#160;The hue
and cry was raised in a moment, by the woman, who knew her loss by
the lightening of her burden, although she had not seen the
pilfering done. &#160;Hugo thrust the bundle into the King's hands
without halting, saying—

