Then he sauntered toward his ante-room and disappeared.
&#160;The old man dropped upon his knees and whispered—

"God be thanked, thou'rt come again, my master! &#160;I believed
thou wert dead these seven years, and lo, here thou art alive!
&#160;I knew thee the moment I saw thee; and main hard work it was
to keep a stony countenance and seem to see none here but tuppenny
knaves and rubbish o' the streets. I am old and poor, Sir Miles;
but say the word and I will go forth and proclaim the truth though
I be strangled for it."

"No," said Hendon; "thou shalt not. &#160;It would ruin thee,
and yet help but little in my cause. &#160;But I thank thee, for
thou hast given me back somewhat of my lost faith in my kind."

The old servant became very valuable to Hendon and the King; for
he dropped in several times a day to 'abuse' the former, and always
smuggled in a few delicacies to help out the prison bill of fare;
he also furnished the current news. &#160;Hendon reserved the
dainties for the King; without them his Majesty might not have
survived, for he was not able to eat the coarse and wretched food
provided by the jailer. &#160;Andrews was obliged to confine
himself to brief visits, in order to avoid suspicion; but he
managed to impart a fair degree of information each
time—information delivered in a low voice, for Hendon's benefit,
and interlarded with insulting epithets delivered in a louder voice
for the benefit of other hearers.

So, little by little, the story of the family came out.
&#160;Arthur had been dead six years. &#160;This loss, with the
absence of news from Hendon, impaired the father's health; he
believed he was going to die, and he wished to see Hugh and Edith
settled in life before he passed away; but Edith begged hard for
delay, hoping for Miles's return; then the letter came which
brought the news of Miles's death; the shock prostrated Sir
Richard; he believed his end was very near, and he and Hugh
insisted upon the marriage; Edith begged for and obtained a month's
respite, then another, and finally a third; the marriage then took
place by the death-bed of Sir Richard. &#160;It had not proved a
happy one. &#160;It was whispered about the country that shortly
after the nuptials the bride found among her husband's papers
several rough and incomplete drafts of the fatal letter, and had
accused him of precipitating the marriage—and Sir Richard's death,
too—by a wicked forgery. Tales of cruelty to the Lady Edith and the
servants were to be heard on all hands; and since the father's
death Sir Hugh had thrown off all soft disguises and become a
pitiless master toward all who in any way depended upon him and his
domains for bread.

There was a bit of Andrew's gossip which the King listened to
with a lively interest—

"There is rumour that the King is mad. &#160;But in charity
forbear to say _I_ mentioned it, for 'tis death to speak of it,
they say."

His Majesty glared at the old man and said—

"The King is NOT mad, good man—and thou'lt find it to thy
advantage to busy thyself with matters that nearer concern thee
than this seditious prattle."

"What doth the lad mean?" said Andrews, surprised at this brisk
assault from such an unexpected quarter. &#160;Hendon gave him a
sign, and he did not pursue his question, but went on with his
budget—

"The late King is to be buried at Windsor in a day or two—the
16th of the month—and the new King will be crowned at Westminster
the 20th."
