


Chapter

30
Tom's progress


Whilst the true King wandered about the land poorly clad, poorly
fed, cuffed and derided by tramps one while, herding with thieves
and murderers in a jail another, and called idiot and impostor by
all impartially, the mock King Tom Canty enjoyed quite a different
experience.

When we saw him last, royalty was just beginning to have a
bright side for him. &#160;This bright side went on brightening
more and more every day: in a very little while it was become
almost all sunshine and delightfulness. &#160;He lost his fears;
his misgivings faded out and died; his embarrassments departed, and
gave place to an easy and confident bearing. &#160;He worked the
whipping-boy mine to ever-increasing profit.

He ordered my Lady Elizabeth and my Lady Jane Grey into his
presence when he wanted to play or talk, and dismissed them when he
was done with them, with the air of one familiarly accustomed to
such performances. &#160;It no longer confused him to have these
lofty personages kiss his hand at parting.

He came to enjoy being conducted to bed in state at night, and
dressed with intricate and solemn ceremony in the morning. &#160;It
came to be a proud pleasure to march to dinner attended by a
glittering procession of officers of state and gentlemen-at-arms;
insomuch, indeed, that he doubled his guard of gentlemen-at-arms,
and made them a hundred. &#160;He liked to hear the bugles sounding
down the long corridors, and the distant voices responding, "Way
for the King!"

He even learned to enjoy sitting in throned state in council,
and seeming to be something more than the Lord Protector's
mouthpiece. He liked to receive great ambassadors and their
gorgeous trains, and listen to the affectionate messages they
brought from illustrious monarchs who called him brother. &#160;O
happy Tom Canty, late of Offal Court!

He enjoyed his splendid clothes, and ordered more: &#160;he
found his four hundred servants too few for his proper grandeur,
and trebled them. &#160;The adulation of salaaming courtiers came
to be sweet music to his ears. &#160;He remained kind and gentle,
and a sturdy and determined champion of all that were oppressed,
and he made tireless war upon unjust laws: &#160;yet upon occasion,
being offended, he could turn upon an earl, or even a duke, and
give him a look that would make him tremble. &#160;Once, when his
royal 'sister,' the grimly holy Lady Mary, set herself to reason
with him against the wisdom of his course in pardoning so many
people who would otherwise be jailed, or hanged, or burned, and
reminded him that their august late father's prisons had sometimes
contained as high as sixty thousand convicts at one time, and that
during his admirable reign he had delivered seventy-two thousand
thieves and robbers over to death by the executioner, the boy was
filled with generous indignation, and commanded her to go to her
closet, and beseech God to take away the stone that was in her
breast, and give her a human heart.

Did Tom Canty never feel troubled about the poor little rightful
prince who had treated him so kindly, and flown out with such hot
zeal to avenge him upon the insolent sentinel at the palace-gate?
Yes; his first royal days and nights were pretty well sprinkled
with painful thoughts about the lost prince, and with sincere
longings for his return, and happy restoration to his native rights
and splendours. &#160;But as time wore on, and the prince did not
come, Tom's mind became more and more occupied with his new and
enchanting experiences, and by little and little the vanished
monarch faded almost out of his thoughts; and finally, when he did
intrude upon them at intervals, he was become an unwelcome spectre,
for he made Tom feel guilty and ashamed.
