'Welcome, O King! as much as hearts can think;
Welcome, again, as much as tongue can tell,—
Welcome to joyous tongues, and hearts that will not
shrink:&#160;
God thee preserve, we pray, and wish thee ever well.'


The people burst forth in a glad shout, repeating with one voice
what the child had said. &#160;Tom Canty gazed abroad over the
surging sea of eager faces, and his heart swelled with exultation;
and he felt that the one thing worth living for in this world was
to be a king, and a nation's idol. &#160;Presently he caught sight,
at a distance, of a couple of his ragged Offal Court comrades—one
of them the lord high admiral in his late mimic court, the other
the first lord of the bedchamber in the same pretentious fiction;
and his pride swelled higher than ever. &#160;Oh, if they could
only recognise him now! &#160;What unspeakable glory it would be,
if they could recognise him, and realise that the derided mock king
of the slums and back alleys was become a real King, with
illustrious dukes and princes for his humble menials, and the
English world at his feet! &#160;But he had to deny himself, and
choke down his desire, for such a recognition might cost more than
it would come to: &#160;so he turned away his head, and left the
two soiled lads to go on with their shoutings and glad adulations,
unsuspicious of whom it was they were lavishing them upon.

Every now and then rose the cry, "A largess! a largess!" and Tom
responded by scattering a handful of bright new coins abroad for
the multitude to scramble for.

The chronicler says, 'At the upper end of Gracechurch Street,
before the sign of the Eagle, the city had erected a gorgeous arch,
beneath which was a stage, which stretched from one side of the
street to the other. This was an historical pageant, representing
the King's immediate progenitors. &#160;There sat Elizabeth of York
in the midst of an immense white rose, whose petals formed
elaborate furbelows around her; by her side was Henry VII., issuing
out of a vast red rose, disposed in the same manner: &#160;the
hands of the royal pair were locked together, and the wedding-ring
ostentatiously displayed. &#160;From the red and white roses
proceeded a stem, which reached up to a second stage, occupied by
Henry VIII., issuing from a red and white rose, with the effigy of
the new King's mother, Jane Seymour, represented by his side.
&#160;One branch sprang from this pair, which mounted to a third
stage, where sat the effigy of Edward VI. himself, enthroned in
royal majesty; and the whole pageant was framed with wreaths of
roses, red and white.'

This quaint and gaudy spectacle so wrought upon the rejoicing
people, that their acclamations utterly smothered the small voice
of the child whose business it was to explain the thing in
eulogistic rhymes. &#160;But Tom Canty was not sorry; for this
loyal uproar was sweeter music to him than any poetry, no matter
what its quality might be. &#160;Whithersoever Tom turned his happy
young face, the people recognised the exactness of his effigy's
likeness to himself, the flesh and blood counterpart; and new
whirlwinds of applause burst forth.

The great pageant moved on, and still on, under one triumphal
arch after another, and past a bewildering succession of
spectacular and symbolical tableaux, each of which typified and
exalted some virtue, or talent, or merit, of the little King's.
&#160;'Throughout the whole of Cheapside, from every penthouse and
window, hung banners and streamers; and the richest carpets,
stuffs, and cloth-of-gold tapestried the streets—specimens of the
great wealth of the stores within; and the splendour of this
thoroughfare was equalled in the other streets, and in some even
surpassed.'

"And all these wonders and these marvels are to welcome me—me!"
murmured Tom Canty.

The mock King's cheeks were flushed with excitement, his eyes
were flashing, his senses swam in a delirium of pleasure. &#160;At
this point, just as he was raising his hand to fling another rich
largess, he caught sight of a pale, astounded face, which was
strained forward out of the second rank of the crowd, its intense
eyes riveted upon him. &#160;A sickening consternation struck
through him; he recognised his mother! and up flew his hand, palm
outward, before his eyes—that old involuntary gesture, born of a
forgotten episode, and perpetuated by habit. &#160;In an instant
more she had torn her way out of the press, and past the guards,
and was at his side. &#160;She embraced his leg, she covered it
with kisses, she cried, "O my child, my darling!" lifting toward
him a face that was transfigured with joy and love. &#160;The same
instant an officer of the King's Guard snatched her away with a
curse, and sent her reeling back whence she came with a vigorous
impulse from his strong arm. &#160;The words "I do not know you,
woman!" were falling from Tom Canty's lips when this piteous thing
occurred; but it smote him to the heart to see her treated so; and
as she turned for a last glimpse of him, whilst the crowd was
swallowing her from his sight, she seemed so wounded, so
broken-hearted, that a shame fell upon him which consumed his pride
to ashes, and withered his stolen royalty. &#160;His grandeurs were
stricken valueless: they seemed to fall away from him like rotten
rags.

The procession moved on, and still on, through ever augmenting
splendours and ever augmenting tempests of welcome; but to Tom
Canty they were as if they had not been. &#160;He neither saw nor
heard. &#160;Royalty had lost its grace and sweetness; its pomps
were become a reproach. &#160;Remorse was eating his heart out.
&#160;He said, "Would God I were free of my captivity!"
