
A silence ensued, undisturbed by a movement or a whisper,
and all eyes were fixed upon the new-comer, who stood, with bent
head and corrugated brow, groping in his memory among a thronging
multitude of valueless recollections for one single little elusive
fact, which, found, would seat him upon a throne—unfound, would
leave him as he was, for good and all—a pauper and an outcast.
&#160;Moment after moment passed—the moments built themselves into
minutes—still the boy struggled silently on, and gave no sign.
&#160;But at last he heaved a sigh, shook his head slowly, and
said, with a trembling lip and in a despondent voice—

"I call the scene back—all of it—but the Seal hath no place in
it." &#160;He paused, then looked up, and said with gentle dignity,
"My lords and gentlemen, if ye will rob your rightful sovereign of
his own for lack of this evidence which he is not able to furnish,
I may not stay ye, being powerless. &#160;But—"

"Oh, folly, oh, madness, my King!" cried Tom Canty, in a panic,
"wait!—think! &#160;Do not give up!—the cause is not lost!
&#160;Nor SHALL be, neither! List to what I say—follow every word—I
am going to bring that morning back again, every hap just as it
happened. &#160;We talked—I told you of my sisters, Nan and Bet—ah,
yes, you remember that; and about mine old grandam—and the rough
games of the lads of Offal Court—yes, you remember these things
also; very well, follow me still, you shall recall everything.
&#160;You gave me food and drink, and did with princely courtesy
send away the servants, so that my low breeding might not shame me
before them—ah, yes, this also you remember."

As Tom checked off his details, and the other boy nodded his
head in recognition of them, the great audience and the officials
stared in puzzled wonderment; the tale sounded like true history,
yet how could this impossible conjunction between a prince and a
beggar-boy have come about? &#160;Never was a company of people so
perplexed, so interested, and so stupefied, before.

"For a jest, my prince, we did exchange garments. &#160;Then we
stood before a mirror; and so alike were we that both said it
seemed as if there had been no change made—yes, you remember that.
&#160;Then you noticed that the soldier had hurt my hand—look! here
it is, I cannot yet even write with it, the fingers are so stiff.
&#160;At this your Highness sprang up, vowing vengeance upon that
soldier, and ran towards the door—you passed a table—that thing you
call the Seal lay on that table—you snatched it up and looked
eagerly about, as if for a place to hide it—your eye caught sight
of—"

"There, 'tis sufficient!—and the good God be thanked!" exclaimed
the ragged claimant, in a mighty excitement. &#160;"Go, my good St.
John—in an arm-piece of the Milanese armour that hangs on the wall,
thou'lt find the Seal!"

"Right, my King! right!" cried Tom Canty; "NOW the sceptre of
England is thine own; and it were better for him that would dispute
it that he had been born dumb! &#160;Go, my Lord St. John, give thy
feet wings!"

The whole assemblage was on its feet now, and well-nigh out of
its mind with uneasiness, apprehension, and consuming excitement.
&#160;On the floor and on the platform a deafening buzz of frantic
conversation burst forth, and for some time nobody knew anything or
heard anything or was interested in anything but what his neighbour
was shouting into his ear, or he was shouting into his neighbour's
ear. &#160;Time—nobody knew how much of it—swept by unheeded and
unnoted. &#160;At last a sudden hush fell upon the house, and in
the same moment St. John appeared upon the platform, and held the
Great Seal aloft in his hand. &#160;Then such a shout went up—

"Long live the true King!"

For five minutes the air quaked with shouts and the crash of
musical instruments, and was white with a storm of waving
handkerchiefs; and through it all a ragged lad, the most
conspicuous figure in England, stood, flushed and happy and proud,
in the centre of the spacious platform, with the great vassals of
the kingdom kneeling around him.

