


Justice and retribution


When the mysteries were all cleared up, it came out, by
confession of Hugh Hendon, that his wife had repudiated Miles by
his command, that day at Hendon Hall—a command assisted and
supported by the perfectly trustworthy promise that if she did not
deny that he was Miles Hendon, and stand firmly to it, he would
have her life; whereupon she said, "Take it!"—she did not value
it—and she would not repudiate Miles; then the husband said he
would spare her life but have Miles assassinated! &#160;This was a
different matter; so she gave her word and kept it.

Hugh was not prosecuted for his threats or for stealing his
brother's estates and title, because the wife and brother would not
testify against him—and the former would not have been allowed to
do it, even if she had wanted to. &#160;Hugh deserted his wife and
went over to the continent, where he presently died; and by-and-by
the Earl of Kent married his relict. There were grand times and
rejoicings at Hendon village when the couple paid their first visit
to the Hall.

Tom Canty's father was never heard of again.

The King sought out the farmer who had been branded and sold as
a slave, and reclaimed him from his evil life with the Ruffler's
gang, and put him in the way of a comfortable livelihood.

He also took that old lawyer out of prison and remitted his
fine. He provided good homes for the daughters of the two Baptist
women whom he saw burned at the stake, and roundly punished the
official who laid the undeserved stripes upon Miles Hendon's
back.

He saved from the gallows the boy who had captured the stray
falcon, and also the woman who had stolen a remnant of cloth from a
weaver; but he was too late to save the man who had been convicted
of killing a deer in the royal forest.

He showed favour to the justice who had pitied him when he was
supposed to have stolen a pig, and he had the gratification of
seeing him grow in the public esteem and become a great and
honoured man.

As long as the King lived he was fond of telling the story of
his adventures, all through, from the hour that the sentinel cuffed
him away from the palace gate till the final midnight when he
deftly mixed himself into a gang of hurrying workmen and so slipped
into the Abbey and climbed up and hid himself in the Confessor's
tomb, and then slept so long, next day, that he came within one of
missing the Coronation altogether. &#160;He said that the frequent
rehearsing of the precious lesson kept him strong in his purpose to
make its teachings yield benefits to his people; and so, whilst his
life was spared he should continue to tell the story, and thus keep
its sorrowful spectacles fresh in his memory and the springs of
pity replenished in his heart.

