


Chapter

4
The Prince's troubles begin


After hours of persistent pursuit and persecution, the little
prince was at last deserted by the rabble and left to himself.
&#160;As long as he had been able to rage against the mob, and
threaten it royally, and royally utter commands that were good
stuff to laugh at, he was very entertaining; but when weariness
finally forced him to be silent, he was no longer of use to his
tormentors, and they sought amusement elsewhere. He looked about
him, now, but could not recognise the locality. &#160;He was within
the city of London—that was all he knew. &#160;He moved on,
aimlessly, and in a little while the houses thinned, and the
passers-by were infrequent. &#160;He bathed his bleeding feet in
the brook which flowed then where Farringdon Street now is; rested
a few moments, then passed on, and presently came upon a great
space with only a few scattered houses in it, and a prodigious
church. &#160;He recognised this church. &#160;Scaffoldings were
about, everywhere, and swarms of workmen; for it was undergoing
elaborate repairs. &#160;The prince took heart at once—he felt that
his troubles were at an end, now. &#160;He said to himself, "It is
the ancient Grey Friars' Church, which the king my father hath
taken from the monks and given for a home for ever for poor and
forsaken children, and new-named it Christ's Church. &#160;Right
gladly will they serve the son of him who hath done so generously
by them—and the more that that son is himself as poor and as
forlorn as any that be sheltered here this day, or ever shall
be."

He was soon in the midst of a crowd of boys who were running,
jumping, playing at ball and leap-frog, and otherwise disporting
themselves, and right noisily, too. &#160;They were all dressed
alike, and in the fashion which in that day prevailed among
serving-men and 'prentices
[1]
—that is to
say, each had on the crown of his head a flat black cap about the
size of a saucer, which was not useful as a covering, it being of
such scanty dimensions, neither was it ornamental; from beneath it
the hair fell, unparted, to the middle of the forehead, and was
cropped straight around; a clerical band at the neck; a blue gown
that fitted closely and hung as low as the knees or lower; full
sleeves; a broad red belt; bright yellow stockings, gartered above
the knees; low shoes with large metal buckles. It was a
sufficiently ugly costume.

The boys stopped their play and flocked about the prince, who
said with native dignity—

"Good lads, say to your master that Edward Prince of Wales
desireth speech with him."

A great shout went up at this, and one rude fellow said—

"Marry, art thou his grace's messenger, beggar?"
