Tom signified assent with a gesture and a murmured word, for he
was already learning, and in his simple heart was resolved to
acquit himself as best he might, according to the King's
command.

In spite of every precaution, the conversation among the young
people became a little embarrassing at times. &#160;More than once,
in truth, Tom was near to breaking down and confessing himself
unequal to his tremendous part; but the tact of the Princess
Elizabeth saved him, or a word from one or the other of the
vigilant lords, thrown in apparently by chance, had the same happy
effect. &#160;Once the little Lady Jane turned to Tom and dismayed
him with this question,—

"Hast paid thy duty to the Queen's majesty to-day, my lord?"

Tom hesitated, looked distressed, and was about to stammer out
something at hazard, when Lord St. John took the word and answered
for him with the easy grace of a courtier accustomed to encounter
delicate difficulties and to be ready for them—

"He hath indeed, madam, and she did greatly hearten him, as
touching his majesty's condition; is it not so, your highness?"

Tom mumbled something that stood for assent, but felt that he
was getting upon dangerous ground. &#160;Somewhat later it was
mentioned that Tom was to study no more at present, whereupon her
little ladyship exclaimed—

"'Tis a pity, 'tis a pity! &#160;Thou wert proceeding bravely.
&#160;But bide thy time in patience: &#160;it will not be for long.
&#160;Thou'lt yet be graced with learning like thy father, and make
thy tongue master of as many languages as his, good my prince."

"My father!" cried Tom, off his guard for the moment. &#160;"I
trow he cannot speak his own so that any but the swine that kennel
in the styes may tell his meaning; and as for learning of any sort
soever—"

He looked up and encountered a solemn warning in my Lord St.
John's eyes.

He stopped, blushed, then continued low and sadly: "Ah, my
malady persecuteth me again, and my mind wandereth. &#160;I meant
the King's grace no irreverence."

"We know it, sir," said the Princess Elizabeth, taking her
'brother's' hand between her two palms, respectfully but
caressingly; "trouble not thyself as to that. &#160;The fault is
none of thine, but thy distemper's."
