A smile twinkled in Hendon's eye, and he said to himself—

"By the mass, the little beggar takes to one's quarters and
usurps one's bed with as natural and easy a grace as if he owned
them—with never a by-your-leave or so-please-it-you, or anything of
the sort. &#160;In his diseased ravings he called himself the
Prince of Wales, and bravely doth he keep up the character.
&#160;Poor little friendless rat, doubtless his mind has been
disordered with ill-usage. &#160;Well, I will be his friend; I have
saved him, and it draweth me strongly to him; already I love the
bold-tongued little rascal. &#160;How soldier-like he faced the
smutty rabble and flung back his high defiance! &#160;And what a
comely, sweet and gentle face he hath, now that sleep hath conjured
away its troubles and its griefs. I will teach him; I will cure his
malady; yea, I will be his elder brother, and care for him and
watch over him; and whoso would shame him or do him hurt may order
his shroud, for though I be burnt for it he shall need it!"

He bent over the boy and contemplated him with kind and
pitying interest, tapping the young cheek tenderly and smoothing
back the tangled curls with his great brown hand. &#160;A slight
shiver passed over the boy's form. Hendon muttered—

"See, now, how like a man it was to let him lie here uncovered
and fill his body with deadly rheums. &#160;Now what shall I do?
'twill wake him to take him up and put him within the bed, and he
sorely needeth sleep."

He looked about for extra covering, but finding none, doffed his
doublet and wrapped the lad in it, saying, "I am used to nipping
air and scant apparel, 'tis little I shall mind the cold!"—then
walked up and down the room, to keep his blood in motion,
soliloquising as before.

"His injured mind persuades him he is Prince of Wales; 'twill be
odd to have a Prince of Wales still with us, now that he that WAS
the prince is prince no more, but king—for this poor mind is set
upon the one fantasy, and will not reason out that now it should
cast by the prince and call itself the king… If my father liveth
still, after these seven years that I have heard nought from home
in my foreign dungeon, he will welcome the poor lad and give him
generous shelter for my sake; so will my good elder brother,
Arthur; my other brother, Hugh—but I will crack his crown an HE
interfere, the fox-hearted, ill-conditioned animal! Yes, thither
will we fare—and straightway, too."

A servant entered with a smoking meal, disposed it upon a small
deal table, placed the chairs, and took his departure, leaving such
cheap lodgers as these to wait upon themselves. &#160;The door
slammed after him, and the noise woke the boy, who sprang to a
sitting posture, and shot a glad glance about him; then a grieved
look came into his face and he murmured to himself, with a deep
sigh, "Alack, it was but a dream, woe is me!" &#160;Next he noticed
Miles Hendon's doublet—glanced from that to Hendon, comprehended
the sacrifice that had been made for him, and said, gently—

"Thou art good to me, yes, thou art very good to me. &#160;Take
it and put it on—I shall not need it more."

Then he got up and walked to the washstand in the corner and
stood there, waiting. &#160;Hendon said in a cheery voice—

"We'll have a right hearty sup and bite, now, for everything is
savoury and smoking hot, and that and thy nap together will make
thee a little man again, never fear!"

The boy made no answer, but bent a steady look, that was filled
with grave surprise, and also somewhat touched with impatience,
upon the tall knight of the sword. &#160;Hendon was puzzled, and
said—
