
He dropped asleep as the dawn appeared. &#160;Toward noon he
rose, uncovered his unconscious ward—a section at a time—and took
his measure with a string. &#160;The King awoke, just as he had
completed his work, complained of the cold, and asked what he was
doing.

"'Tis done, now, my liege," said Hendon; "I have a bit of
business outside, but will presently return; sleep thou again—thou
needest it. There—let me cover thy head also—thou'lt be warm the
sooner."

The King was back in dreamland before this speech was ended.
Miles slipped softly out, and slipped as softly in again, in the
course of thirty or forty minutes, with a complete second-hand suit
of boy's clothing, of cheap material, and showing signs of wear;
but tidy, and suited to the season of the year. &#160;He seated
himself, and began to overhaul his purchase, mumbling to
himself—

"A longer purse would have got a better sort, but when one has
not the long purse one must be content with what a short one may
do—


"'There was a woman in our town,&#160;
In our town did dwell—'


"He stirred, methinks—I must sing in a less thunderous key; 'tis
not good to mar his sleep, with this journey before him, and he so
wearied out, poor chap&#160;… This garment—'tis well enough—a
stitch here and another one there will set it aright. &#160;This
other is better, albeit a stitch or two will not come amiss in it,
likewise&#160;… THESE be very good and sound, and will keep his
small feet warm and dry—an odd new thing to him, belike, since he
has doubtless been used to foot it bare, winters and summers the
same&#160;… Would thread were bread, seeing one getteth a year's
sufficiency for a farthing, and such a brave big needle without
cost, for mere love. &#160;Now shall I have the demon's own time to
thread it!"

And so he had. &#160;He did as men have always done, and
probably always will do, to the end of time—held the needle still,
and tried to thrust the thread through the eye, which is the
opposite of a woman's way. &#160;Time and time again the thread
missed the mark, going sometimes on one side of the needle,
sometimes on the other, sometimes doubling up against the shaft;
but he was patient, having been through these experiences before,
when he was soldiering. &#160;He succeeded at last, and took up the
garment that had lain waiting, meantime, across his lap, and began
his work.

"The inn is paid—the breakfast that is to come, included—and
there is wherewithal left to buy a couple of donkeys and meet our
little costs for the two or three days betwixt this and the plenty
that awaits us at Hendon Hall—


