
"Alack, it was no dream! &#160;Go to thy rest, sweet sir—leave
me to my sorrows."

Tom slept again, and after a time he had this pleasant dream.
&#160;He thought it was summer, and he was playing, all alone, in
the fair meadow called Goodman's Fields, when a dwarf only a foot
high, with long red whiskers and a humped back, appeared to him
suddenly and said, "Dig by that stump." &#160;He did so, and found
twelve bright new pennies—wonderful riches! &#160;Yet this was not
the best of it; for the dwarf said—

"I know thee. &#160;Thou art a good lad, and a deserving; thy
distresses shall end, for the day of thy reward is come. &#160;Dig
here every seventh day, and thou shalt find always the same
treasure, twelve bright new pennies. Tell none—keep the
secret."

Then the dwarf vanished, and Tom flew to Offal Court with his
prize, saying to himself, "Every night will I give my father a
penny; he will think I begged it, it will glad his heart, and I
shall no more be beaten. One penny every week the good priest that
teacheth me shall have; mother, Nan, and Bet the other four. We be
done with hunger and rags, now, done with fears and frets and
savage usage."

In his dream he reached his sordid home all out of breath, but
with eyes dancing with grateful enthusiasm; cast four of his
pennies into his mother's lap and cried out—

"They are for thee!—all of them, every one!—for thee and Nan and
Bet—and honestly come by, not begged nor stolen!"

The happy and astonished mother strained him to her breast and
exclaimed—

"It waxeth late—may it please your Majesty to rise?"

Ah! that was not the answer he was expecting. &#160;The dream
had snapped asunder—he was awake.

He opened his eyes—the richly clad First Lord of the Bedchamber
was kneeling by his couch. &#160;The gladness of the lying dream
faded away—the poor boy recognised that he was still a captive and
a king. &#160;The room was filled with courtiers clothed in purple
mantles—the mourning colour—and with noble servants of the monarch.
&#160;Tom sat up in bed and gazed out from the heavy silken
curtains upon this fine company.

