
Tom turned an inquiring look toward Hertford, who whispered—

"Your Majesty will signify consent. &#160;They come to testify
their royal masters' sense of the heavy calamity which hath visited
your Grace and the realm of England."

Tom did as he was bidden. &#160;Another secretary began to read
a preamble concerning the expenses of the late King's household,
which had amounted to 28,000 pounds during the preceding six
months—a sum so vast that it made Tom Canty gasp; he gasped again
when the fact appeared that 20,000 pounds of this money was still
owing and unpaid; and once more when it appeared that the King's
coffers were about empty, and his twelve hundred servants much
embarrassed for lack of the wages due them. &#160;Tom spoke out,
with lively apprehension—

"We be going to the dogs, 'tis plain. &#160;'Tis meet and
necessary that we take a smaller house and set the servants at
large, sith they be of no value but to make delay, and trouble one
with offices that harass the spirit and shame the soul, they
misbecoming any but a doll, that hath nor brains nor hands to help
itself withal. &#160;I remember me of a small house that standeth
over against the fish-market, by Billingsgate—"

A sharp pressure upon Tom's arm stopped his foolish tongue and
sent a blush to his face; but no countenance there betrayed any
sign that this strange speech had been remarked or given
concern.

A secretary made report that forasmuch as the late King had
provided in his will for conferring the ducal degree upon the Earl
of Hertford and raising his brother, Sir Thomas Seymour, to the
peerage, and likewise Hertford's son to an earldom, together with
similar aggrandisements to other great servants of the Crown, the
Council had resolved to hold a sitting on the 16th of February for
the delivering and confirming of these honours, and that meantime,
the late King not having granted, in writing, estates suitable to
the support of these dignities, the Council, knowing his private
wishes in that regard, had thought proper to grant to Seymour '500
pound lands,' and to Hertford's son '800 pound lands, and 300 pound
of the next bishop's lands which should fall vacant,'—his present
Majesty being willing.

Tom was about to blurt out something about the propriety of
paying the late King's debts first, before squandering all this
money, but a timely touch upon his arm, from the thoughtful
Hertford, saved him this indiscretion; wherefore he gave the royal
assent, without spoken comment, but with much inward discomfort.
&#160;While he sat reflecting a moment over the ease with which he
was doing strange and glittering miracles, a happy thought shot
into his mind: &#160;why not make his mother Duchess of Offal
Court, and give her an estate? &#160;But a sorrowful thought swept
it instantly away: he was only a king in name, these grave veterans
and great nobles were his masters; to them his mother was only the
creature of a diseased mind; they would simply listen to his
project with unbelieving ears, then send for the doctor.

The dull work went tediously on. &#160;Petitions were read, and
proclamations, patents, and all manner of wordy, repetitious, and
wearisome papers relating to the public business; and at last Tom
sighed pathetically and murmured to himself, "In what have I
offended, that the good God should take me away from the fields and
the free air and the sunshine, to shut me up here and make me a
king and afflict me so?" &#160;Then his poor muddled head nodded a
while and presently drooped to his shoulder; and the business of
the empire came to a standstill for want of that august factor, the
ratifying power. &#160;Silence ensued around the slumbering child,
and the sages of the realm ceased from their deliberations.

During the forenoon, Tom had an enjoyable hour, by permission of
his keepers, Hertford and St. John, with the Lady Elizabeth and the
little Lady Jane Grey; though the spirits of the princesses were
rather subdued by the mighty stroke that had fallen upon the royal
house; and at the end of the visit his 'elder sister'—afterwards
the 'Bloody Mary' of history—chilled him with a solemn interview
which had but one merit in his eyes, its brevity. &#160;He had a
few moments to himself, and then a slim lad of about twelve years
of age was admitted to his presence, whose clothing, except his
snowy ruff and the laces about his wrists, was of black,—doublet,
hose, and all. &#160;He bore no badge of mourning but a knot of
purple ribbon on his shoulder. &#160;He advanced hesitatingly, with
head bowed and bare, and dropped upon one knee in front of Tom. Tom
sat still and contemplated him soberly a moment. &#160;Then he
said—

"Rise, lad. &#160;Who art thou. &#160;What wouldst have?"

