


Chapter

3
Tom's meeting with the Prince


Tom got up hungry, and sauntered hungry away, but with his
thoughts busy with the shadowy splendours of his night's dreams. He
wandered here and there in the city, hardly noticing where he was
going, or what was happening around him. &#160;People jostled him,
and some gave him rough speech; but it was all lost on the musing
boy. &#160;By-and-by he found himself at Temple Bar, the farthest
from home he had ever travelled in that direction. &#160;He stopped
and considered a moment, then fell into his imaginings again, and
passed on outside the walls of London. &#160;The Strand had ceased
to be a country-road then, and regarded itself as a street, but by
a strained construction; for, though there was a tolerably compact
row of houses on one side of it, there were only some scattered
great buildings on the other, these being palaces of rich nobles,
with ample and beautiful grounds stretching to the river—grounds
that are now closely packed with grim acres of brick and stone.

Tom discovered Charing Village presently, and rested himself at
the beautiful cross built there by a bereaved king of earlier days;
then idled down a quiet, lovely road, past the great cardinal's
stately palace, toward a far more mighty and majestic palace
beyond—Westminster. Tom stared in glad wonder at the vast pile of
masonry, the wide-spreading wings, the frowning bastions and
turrets, the huge stone gateway, with its gilded bars and its
magnificent array of colossal granite lions, and other the signs
and symbols of English royalty. &#160;Was the desire of his soul to
be satisfied at last? &#160;Here, indeed, was a king's palace.
&#160;Might he not hope to see a prince now—a prince of flesh and
blood, if Heaven were willing?

At each side of the gilded gate stood a living statue—that is to
say, an erect and stately and motionless man-at-arms, clad from
head to heel in shining steel armour. &#160;At a respectful
distance were many country folk, and people from the city, waiting
for any chance glimpse of royalty that might offer. &#160;Splendid
carriages, with splendid people in them and splendid servants
outside, were arriving and departing by several other noble
gateways that pierced the royal enclosure.

Poor little Tom, in his rags, approached, and was moving slowly
and timidly past the sentinels, with a beating heart and a rising
hope, when all at once he caught sight through the golden bars of a
spectacle that almost made him shout for joy. &#160;Within was a
comely boy, tanned and brown with sturdy outdoor sports and
exercises, whose clothing was all of lovely silks and satins,
shining with jewels; at his hip a little jewelled sword and dagger;
dainty buskins on his feet, with red heels; and on his head a
jaunty crimson cap, with drooping plumes fastened with a great
sparkling gem. &#160;Several gorgeous gentlemen stood near—his
servants, without a doubt. &#160;Oh! he was a prince—a prince, a
living prince, a real prince—without the shadow of a question; and
the prayer of the pauper-boy's heart was answered at last.

Tom's breath came quick and short with excitement, and his eyes
grew big with wonder and delight. &#160;Everything gave way in his
mind instantly to one desire: &#160;that was to get close to the
prince, and have a good, devouring look at him. &#160;Before he
knew what he was about, he had his face against the gate-bars.
&#160;The next instant one of the soldiers snatched him rudely
away, and sent him spinning among the gaping crowd of country gawks
and London idlers. &#160;The soldier said,—

"Mind thy manners, thou young beggar!"

The crowd jeered and laughed; but the young prince sprang to the
gate with his face flushed, and his eyes flashing with indignation,
and cried out,—
