
"Yes, and you too perhaps quite misunderstand me, dear young
lady. Maybe I'm not so good as I seem to you. I've a bad heart; I
will have my own way. I fascinated poor Dmitri Fyodorovitch that
day simply for fun."

"But now you'll save him. You've given me your word. You'll
explain it all to him. You'll break to him that you have long loved
another man, who is now offering you his hand."

"Oh, no I didn't give you my word to do that. It was you kept
talking about that. I didn't give you my word."

"Then I didn't quite understand you," said Katerina Ivanovna
slowly, turning a little pale. "You promised-"

"Oh no, angel lady, I've promised nothing," Grushenka
interrupted softly and evenly, still with the same gay and simple
expression. "You see at once, dear young lady, what a wilful wretch
I am compared with you. If I want to do a thing I do it. I may have
made you some promise just now. But now again I'm thinking: I may
take Mitya again. I liked him very much once- liked him for almost
a whole hour. Now maybe I shall go and tell him to stay with me
from this day forward. You see, I'm so changeable."

"Just now you said- something quite different," Katerina
Ivanovna whispered faintly.

"Ah, just now! But, you know, I'm such a soft-hearted, silly
creature. Only think what he's gone through on my account! What if
when I go home I feel sorry for him? What then?"

"I never expected-"

"Ah, young lady, how good and generous you are compared with me!
Now perhaps you won't care for a silly creature like me, now you
know my character. Give me your sweet little hand, angelic lady,"
she said tenderly, and with a sort of reverence took Katerina
Ivanovna's hand.

"Here, dear young lady, I'll take your hand and kiss it as you
did mine. You kissed mine three times, but I ought to kiss yours
three hundred times to be even with you. Well, but let that pass.
And then it shall be as God wills. Perhaps I shall be your slave
entirely and want to do your bidding like a slave. Let it be as God
wills, without any agreements and promises. What a sweet hand- what
a sweet hand you have! You sweet young lady, you incredible
beauty!"

