
"Stay. Look at the night. You see what a dark night, what
clouds, what a wind has risen. I hid here under the willow waiting
for you. And as God's above, I suddenly thought, why go on in
misery any longer, what is there to wait for? Here I have a willow,
a handkerchief, a shirt, I can twist them into a rope in a minute,
and braces besides, and why go on burdening the earth, dishonouring
it with my vile presence? And then I heard you coming- Heavens, it
was as though something flew down to me suddenly. So there is a
man, then, whom I love. Here he is, that man, my dear little
brother, whom I love more than anyone in the world, the only one I
love in the world. And I loved you so much, so much at that moment
that I thought, 'I'll fall on his neck at once.' Then a stupid idea
struck me, to have a joke with you and scare you. I shouted, like a
fool, 'Your money!' Forgive my foolery- it was only nonsense, and
there's nothing unseemly in my soul… . Damn it all, tell me what's
happened. What did she say? Strike me, crush me, don't spare me!
Was she furious?"

"No, not that… . There was nothing like that, Mitya. There- I
found them both there."

"Both? Whom?"

"Grushenka at Katerina Ivanovna's."

Dmitri was struck dumb.

"Impossible!" he cried. "You're raving! Grushenka with her?"

Alyosha described all that had happened from the moment he went
in to Katerina Ivanovna's. He was ten minutes telling his story.
can't be said to have told it fluently and consecutively, but he
seemed to make it clear, not omitting any word or action of
significance, and vividly describing, often in one word, his own
sensations. Dmitri listened in silence, gazing at him with a
terrible fixed stare, but it was clear to Alyosha that he
understood it all, and had grasped every point. But as the story
went on, his face became not merely gloomy, but menacing. He
scowled, he clenched his teeth, and his fixed stare became still
more rigid, more concentrated, more terrible, when suddenly, with
incredible rapidity, his wrathful, savage face changed, his tightly
compressed lips parted, and Dmitri Fyodorovitch broke into
uncontrolled, spontaneous laughter. He literally shook with
laughter. For a long time he could not speak.

"So she wouldn't kiss her hand! So she didn't kiss it; so she
ran away!" he kept exclaiming with hysterical delight; insolent
delight it might had been called, if it had not been so
spontaneous. "So the other one called her tigress! And a tigress
she is! So she ought to be flogged on a scaffold? Yes, yes, so she
ought. That's just what I think; she ought to have been long ago.
It's like this, brother, let her be punished, but I must get better
first. I understand the queen of impudence. That's her all over!
You saw her all over in that hand-kissing, the she-devil! She's
magnificent in her own line! So she ran home? I'll go- ah- I'll run
to her! Alyosha, don't blame me, I agree that hanging is too good
for her."

"But Katerina Ivanovna!" exclaimed Alyosha sorrowfully.

"I see her, too! I see right through her, as I've never done
before! It's a regular discovery of the four continents of the
world, that is, of the five! What a thing to do! That's just like
Katya, who was not afraid to face a coarse, unmannerly officer and
risk a deadly insult on a generous impulse to save her father! But
the pride, the recklessness, the defiance of fate, the unbounded
defiance! You say that aunt tried to stop her? That aunt, you know,
is overbearing, herself. She's the sister of the general's widow in
Moscow, and even more stuck-up than she. But her husband was caught
stealing government money. He lost everything, his estate and all,
and the proud wife had to lower her colours, and hasn't raised them
since. So she tried to prevent Katya, but she wouldn't listen to
her! She thinks she can overcome everything, that everything will
give way to her. She thought she could bewitch Grushenka if she
liked, and she believed it herself: she plays a part to herself,
and whose fault is it? Do you think she kissed Grushenka's hand
first, on purpose, with a motive? No, she really was fascinated by
Grushenka, that's to say, not by Grushenka, but by her own dream,
her own delusion- because it was her dream, her delusion! Alyosha,
darling, how did you escape from them, those women? Did you pick up
your cassock and run? Ha ha ha!"

