"Do you want me to bow down to you, monk?" said Father Ferapont.
"Get up!"

The monk got up.

"Blessing, be blessed! Sit beside me. Where have you come
from?"

What most struck the poor monk was the fact that in spite of his
strict fasting and great age, Father Ferapont still looked a
vigorous old man. He was tall, held himself erect, and had a thin,
but fresh and healthy face. There was no doubt he still had
considerable strength. He was of athletic build. In spite of his
great age he was not even quite grey, and still had very thick hair
and a full beard, both of which had once been black. His eyes were
grey, large and luminous, but strikingly prominent. He spoke with a
broad accent. He was dressed in a peasant's long reddish coat of
coarse convict cloth (as it used to be called) and had a stout rope
round his waist. His throat and chest were bare. Beneath his coat,
his shirt of the coarsest linen showed almost black with dirt, not
having been changed for months. They said that he wore irons
weighing thirty pounds under his coat. His stockingless feet were
thrust in old slippers almost dropping to pieces.

"From the little Obdorsk monastery, from St. Sylvester," the
monk answered humbly, whilst his keen and inquisitive, but rather
frightened little eyes kept watch on the hermit.

"I have been at your Sylvester's. I used to stay there. Is
Sylvester well?"

The monk hesitated.

"You are a senseless lot! How do you keep the fasts?"

"Our dietary is according to the ancient conventual rules.
During Lent there are no meals provided for Monday, Wednesday, and
Friday. For Tuesday and Thursday we have white bread, stewed fruit
with honey, wild berries, or salt cabbage and whole meal stirabout.
On Saturday white cabbage soup, noodles with peas, kasha, all with
hemp oil. On weekdays we have dried fish and kasha with the cabbage
soup. From Monday till Saturday evening, six whole days in Holy
Week, nothing is cooked, and we have only bread and water, and that
sparingly; if possible not taking food every day, just the same as
is ordered for first week in Lent. On Good Friday nothing is eaten.
In the same way on the Saturday we have to fast till three o'clock,
and then take a little bread and water and drink a single cup of
wine. On Holy Thursday we drink wine and have something cooked
without oil or not cooked at all, inasmuch as the Laodicean council
lays down for Holy Thursday: "It is unseemly by remitting the fast
on the Holy Thursday to dishonour the whole of Lent!" This is how
we keep the fast. But what is that compared with you, holy Father,"
added the monk, growing more confident, "for all the year round,
even at Easter, you take nothing but bread and water, and what we
should eat in two days lasts you full seven. It's truly marvellous-
your great abstinence."

"And mushrooms?" asked Father Ferapont, suddenly.

"Mushrooms?" repeated the surprised monk.
