
"That's enough. One glass won't kill me."

"You see you are in a better humour now," said Alyosha,
smiling.

"Um! I love you even without the brandy, but with scoundrels I
am a scoundrel. Ivan is not going to Tchermashnya- why is that? He
wants to spy how much I give Grushenka if she comes. They are all
scoundrels! But I don't recognise Ivan, I don't know him at all.
Where does he come from? He is not one of us in soul. As though I'd
leave him anything! I shan't leave a will at all, you may as well
know. And I'll crush Mitya like a beetle. I squash black-beetles at
night with my slipper; they squelch when you tread on them. And
your Mitya will squelch too. Your Mitya, for you love him. Yes you
love him and I am not afraid of your loving him. But if Ivan loved
him I should be afraid for myself at his loving him. But Ivan loves
nobody. Ivan is not one of us. People like Ivan are not our sort,
my boy. They are like a cloud of dust. When the wind blows, the
dust will be gone… . I had a silly idea in my head when I told you
to come to-day; I wanted to find out from you about Mitya. If I
were to hand him over a thousand or maybe two now, would the
beggarly wretch agree to take himself off altogether for five years
or, better still, thirty-five, and without Grushenka, and give her
up once for all, eh?"

"I- I'll ask him," muttered Alyosha. "If you would give him
three thousand, perhaps he-"

"That's nonsense! You needn't ask him now, no need! I've changed
my mind. It was a nonsensical idea of mine. I won't give him
anything, not a penny, I want my money myself," cried the old man,
waving his hand. "I'll crush him like a beetle without it. Don't
say anything to him or else he will begin hoping. There's nothing
for you to do here, you needn't stay. Is that betrothed of his,
Katerina Ivanovna, whom he has kept so carefully hidden from me all
this time, going to marry him or not? You went to see her
yesterday, I believe?"

"Nothing will induce her to abandon him."

"There you see how dearly these fine young ladies love a rake
and a scoundrel. They are poor creatures I tell you, those pale
young ladies, very different from- Ah, if I had his youth and the
looks I had then (for I was better-looking than he at eight and
twenty) I'd have been a conquering hero just as he is. He is a low
cad! But he shan't have Grushenka, anyway, he shan't! I'll crush
him!"

His anger had returned with the last words.

"You can go. There's nothing for you to do here to-day," he
snapped harshly.

Alyosha went up to say good-bye to him, and kissed him on the
shoulder.

