"Ah, that's true! I understand that perfectly now. Ah, Alyosha,
how do you know all this? So young and yet he knows what's in the
heart… . I should never have worked it out."

"The great thing now is to persuade him that he is on an equal
footing with us, in spite of his taking money from us," Alyosha
went on in his excitement, "and not only on an equal, but even on a
higher footing."

"'On a higher footing' is charming, Alexey Fyodorovitch; but go
on, go on!"

"You mean there isn't such an expression as 'on a higher
footing'; but that doesn't matter because- "

"Oh, no, of course it doesn't matter. Forgive me, Alyosha, dear…
. You know, I scarcely respected you till now- that is I respected
you but on an equal footing; but now I shall begin to respect you
on a higher footing. Don't be angry, dear, at my joking," she put
in at once, with strong feeling. "I am absurd and small, but you,
you! Listen, Alexey Fyodorovitch. Isn't there in all our analysis-
I mean your analysis… no, better call it ours- aren't we showing
contempt for him, for that poor man- in analysing his soul like
this, as it were, from above, eh? In deciding so certainly that he
will take the money?"

"No, Lise, it's not contempt," Alyosha answered, as though he
had prepared himself for the question. "I was thinking of that on
the way here. How can it be contempt when we are all like him, when
we are all just the same as he is? For you know we are just the
same, no better. If we are better, we should have been just the
same in his place… . I don't know about you, Lise, but I consider
that I have a sordid soul in many ways, and his soul is not sordid;
on the contrary, full of fine feeling… . No, Lise, I have no
contempt for him. Do you know, Lise, my elder told me once to care
for most people exactly as one would for children, and for some of
them as one would for the sick in hospitals."

"Ah, Alexey Fyodorovitch. dear, let us care for people as we
would for the sick!"

"Let us, Lise; I am ready. Though I am not altogether ready in
myself. I am sometimes very impatient and at other times I don't
see things. It's different with you."

"Ah, I don't believe it! Alexey Fyodorovitch, how happy I
am!"

"I am so glad you say so, Lise."

"Alexey Fyodorovitch, you are wonderfully good, but you are
sometimes sort of formal… . And yet you are not a bit formal
really. Go to the door, open it gently, and see whether mamma is
listening," said Lise, in a nervous, hurried whisper.
