


Chapter

1
They Arrive at the Monastery


IT was a warm, bright day the end of August. The interview with
the elder had been fixed for half-past eleven, immediately after
late mass. Our visitors did not take part in the service, but
arrived just as it was over. First an elegant open carriage, drawn
by two valuable horses, drove up with Miusov and a distant relative
of his, a young man of twenty, called Pyotr Fomitch Kalganov. This
young man was preparing to enter the university. Miusov with whom
he was staying for the time, was trying to persuade him to go
abroad to the university of Zurich or Jena. The young man was still
undecided. He was thoughtful and absent-minded. He was
nice-looking, strongly built, and rather tall. There was a strange
fixity in his gaze at times. Like all very absent-minded people he
would sometimes stare at a person without seeing him. He was silent
and rather awkward, but sometimes, when he was alone with anyone,
he became talkative and effusive, and would laugh at anything or
nothing. But his animation vanished as quickly as it appeared. He
was always well and even elaborately dressed; he had already some
independent fortune and expectations of much more. He was a friend
of Alyosha's.

In an ancient, jolting, but roomy, hired carriage, with a pair
of old pinkish-grey horses, a long way behind Miusov's carriage,
came Fyodor Pavlovitch, with his son Ivan. Dmitri was late, though
he had been informed of the time the evening before. The visitors
left their carriage at the hotel, outside the precincts, and went
to the gates of the monastery on foot. Except Fyodor Pavlovitch,
more of the party had ever seen the monastery, and Miusov had
probably not even been to church for thirty years. He looked about
him with curiosity, together with assumed ease. But, except the
church and the domestic buildings, though these too were ordinary
enough, he found nothing of interest in the interior of the
monastery. The last of the worshippers were coming out of the
church bareheaded and crossing themselves. Among the humbler people
were a few of higher rank- two or three ladies and a very old
general. They were all staying at the hotel. Our visitors were at
once surrounded by beggars, but none of them gave them anything,
except young Kalganov, who took a ten-copeck piece out of his
purse, and, nervous and embarrassed- God knows why!- hurriedly gave
it to an old woman, saying: "Divide it equally." None of his
companions made any remark upon it, so that he had no reason to be
embarrassed; but, perceiving this, he was even more overcome.

It was strange that their arrival did not seem expected, and
that they were not received with special honour, though one of them
had recently made a donation of a thousand roubles, while another
was a very wealthy and highly cultured landowner, upon whom all in
the monastery were in a sense dependent, as a decision of the
lawsuit might at any moment put their fishing rights in his hands.
Yet no official personage met them.

Miusov looked absent-mindedly at the tombstones round the
church, and was on the point of saying that the dead buried here
must have paid a pretty penny for the right of lying in this "holy
place," but refrained. His liberal irony was rapidly changing
almost into anger.

"Who the devil is there to ask in this imbecile place? We must
find out, for time is passing," he observed suddenly, as though
speaking to himself.

All at once there came up a bald-headed, elderly man with
ingratiating little eyes, wearing a full, summer overcoat. Lifting
his hat, he introduced himself with a honeyed lisp as Maximov, a
landowner of Tula. He at once entered into our visitors'
difficulty.

"Father Zossima lives in the hermitage, apart, four hundred
paces from the monastery, the other side of the copse."
