
"'Receiving bread from us, they will see clearly that we take
the bread made by their hands from them, to give it to them,
without any miracle. They will see that we do not change the stones
to bread, but in truth they will be more thankful for taking it
from our hands than for the bread itself! For they will remember
only too well that in old days, without our help, even the bread
they made turned to stones in their hands, while since they have
come back to us, the very stones have turned to bread in their
hands. Too, too well will they know the value of complete
submission! And until men know that, they will be unhappy. Who is
most to blame for their not knowing it?-speak! Who scattered the
flock and sent it astray on unknown paths? But the flock will come
together again and will submit once more, and then it will be once
for all. Then we shall give them the quiet humble happiness of weak
creatures such as they are by nature. Oh, we shall persuade them at
last not to be proud, for Thou didst lift them up and thereby
taught them to be proud. We shall show them that they are weak,
that they are only pitiful children, but that childlike happiness
is the sweetest of all. They will become timid and will look to us
and huddle close to us in fear, as chicks to the hen. They will
marvel at us and will be awe-stricken before us, and will be proud
at our being so powerful and clever that we have been able to
subdue such a turbulent flock of thousands of millions. They will
tremble impotently before our wrath, their minds will grow fearful,
they will be quick to shed tears like women and children, but they
will be just as ready at a sign from us to pass to laughter and
rejoicing, to happy mirth and childish song. Yes, we shall set them
to work, but in their leisure hours we shall make their life like a
child's game, with children's songs and innocent dance. Oh, we
shall allow them even sin, they are weak and helpless, and they
will love us like children because we allow them to sin. We shall
tell them that every sin will be expiated, if it is done with our
permission, that we allow them to sin because we love them, and the
punishment for these sins we take upon ourselves. And we shall take
it upon ourselves, and they will adore us as their saviours who
have taken on themselves their sins before God. And they will have
no secrets from us. We shall allow or forbid them to live with
their wives and mistresses, to have or not to have children
according to whether they have been obedient or disobedient- and
they will submit to us gladly and cheerfully. The most painful
secrets of their conscience, all, all they will bring to us, and we
shall have an answer for all. And they will be glad to believe our
answer, for it will save them from the great anxiety and terrible
agony they endure at present in making a free decision for
themselves. And all will be happy, all the millions of creatures
except the hundred thousand who rule over them. For only we, we who
guard the mystery, shall be unhappy. There will be thousands of
millions of happy babes, and a hundred thousand sufferers who have
taken upon themselves the curse of the knowledge of good and evil.
Peacefully they will die, peacefully they will expire in Thy name,
and beyond the grave they will find nothing but death. But we shall
keep the secret, and for their happiness we shall allure them with
the reward of heaven and eternity. Though if there were anything in
the other world, it certainly would not be for such as they. It is
prophesied that Thou wilt come again in victory, Thou wilt come
with Thy chosen, the proud and strong, but we will say that they
have only saved themselves, but we have saved all. We are told that
the harlot who sits upon the beast, and holds in her hands the
mystery, shall be put to shame, that the weak will rise up again,
and will rend her royal purple and will strip naked her loathsome
body. But then I will stand up and point out to Thee the thousand
millions of happy children who have known no sin. And we who have
taken their sins upon us for their happiness will stand up before
Thee and say: "Judge us if Thou canst and darest." Know that I fear
Thee not. Know that I too have been in the wilderness, I too have
lived on roots and locusts, I too prized the freedom with which
Thou hast blessed men, and I too was striving to stand among Thy
elect, among the strong and powerful, thirsting "to make up the
number." But I awakened and would not serve madness. I turned back
and joined the ranks of those who have corrected Thy work. I left
the proud and went back to the humble, for the happiness of the
humble. What I say to Thee will come to pass, and our dominion will
be built up. I repeat, to-morrow Thou shalt see that obedient flock
who at a sign from me will hasten to heap up the hot cinders about
the pile on which I shall burn Thee for coming to hinder us. For if
anyone has ever deserved our fires, it is Thou. To-morrow I shall
burn Thee. Dixi.'"
[8]
Ivan
stopped. He was carried away as he talked, and spoke with
excitement; when he had finished, he suddenly smiled. Alyosha had
listened in silence; towards the end he was greatly moved and
seemed several times on the point of interrupting, but restrained
himself. Now his words came with a rush. "But… that's absurd!" he
cried, flushing. "Your poem is in praise of Jesus, not in blame of
Him- as you meant it to be. And who will believe you about freedom?
Is that the way to understand it? That's not the idea of it in the
Orthodox Church… . That's Rome, and not even the whole of Rome,
it's false-those are the worst of the Catholics the Inquisitors,
the Jesuits!… And there could not be such a fantastic creature as
your Inquisitor. What are these sins of mankind they take on
themselves? Who are these keepers of the mystery who have taken
some curse upon themselves for the happiness of mankind? When have
they been seen? We know the Jesuits, they are spoken ill of, but
surely they are not what you describe? They are not that at all,
not at all… . They are simply the Romish army for the earthly
sovereignty of the world in the future, with the Pontiff of Rome
for Emperor… that's their ideal, but there's no sort of mystery or
lofty melancholy about it… . It's simple lust of power, of filthy
earthly gain, of domination-something like a universal serfdom with
them as masters-that's all they stand for. They don't even believe
in God perhaps. Your suffering Inquisitor is a mere fantasy."
"Stay, stay," laughed Ivan. "how hot you are! A fantasy you say,
let it be so! Of course it's a fantasy. But allow me to say: do you
really think that the Roman Catholic movement of the last centuries
is actually nothing but the lust of power, of filthy earthly gain?
Is that Father Paissy's teaching?" "No, no, on the contrary, Father
Paissy did once say something rather the same as you… but of course
it's not the same, not a bit the same," Alyosha hastily corrected
himself. "A precious admission, in spite of your 'not a bit the
same.' I ask you why your Jesuits and Inquisitors have united
simply for vile material gain? Why can there not be among them one
martyr oppressed by great sorrow and loving humanity? You see, only
suppose that there was one such man among all those who desire
nothing but filthy material gain-if there's only one like my old
Inquisitor, who had himself eaten roots in the desert and made
frenzied efforts to subdue his flesh to make himself free and
perfect. But yet all his life he loved humanity, and suddenly his
eyes were opened, and he saw that it is no great moral blessedness
to attain perfection and freedom, if at the same time one gains the
conviction that millions of God's creatures have been created as a
mockery, that they will never be capable of using their freedom,
that these poor rebels can never turn into giants to complete the
tower, that it was not for such geese that the great idealist
dreamt his dream of harmony. Seeing all that he turned back and
joined- the clever people. Surely that could have happened?"
"Joined whom, what clever people?" cried Alyosha, completely
carried away. "They have no such great cleverness and no mysteries
and secrets… . Perhaps nothing but Atheism, that's all their
secret. Your Inquisitor does not believe in God, that's his
secret!" "What if it is so! At last you have guessed it. It's
perfectly true, it's true that that's the whole secret, but isn't
that suffering, at least for a man like that, who has wasted his
whole life in the desert and yet could not shake off his incurable
love of humanity? In his old age he reached the clear conviction
that nothing but the advice of the great dread spirit could build
up any tolerable sort of life for the feeble, unruly, 'incomplete,
empirical creatures created in jest.' And so, convinced of this, he
sees that he must follow the counsel of the wise spirit, the dread
spirit of death and destruction, and therefore accept lying and
deception, and lead men consciously to death and destruction, and
yet deceive them all the way so that they may not notice where they
are being led, that the poor blind creatures may at least on the
way think themselves happy. And note, the deception is in the name
of Him in Whose ideal the old man had so fervently believed all his
life long. Is not that tragic? And if only one such stood at the
head of the whole army 'filled with the lust of power only for the
sake of filthy gain'- would not one such be enough to make a
tragedy? More than that, one such standing at the head is enough to
create the actual leading idea of the Roman Church with all its
armies and Jesuits, its highest idea. I tell you frankly that I
firmly believe that there has always been such a man among those
who stood at the head of the movement. Who knows, there may have
been some such even among the Roman Popes. Who knows, perhaps the
spirit of that accursed old man who loves mankind so obstinately in
his own way, is to be found even now in a whole multitude of such
old men, existing not by chance but by agreement, as a secret
league formed long ago for the guarding of the mystery, to guard it
from the weak and the unhappy, so as to make them happy. No doubt
it is so, and so it must be indeed. I fancy that even among the
Masons there's something of the same mystery at the bottom, and
that that's why the Catholics so detest the Masons as their rivals
breaking up the unity of the idea, while it is so essential that
there should be one flock and one shepherd… . But from the way I
defend my idea I might be an author impatient of your criticism.
Enough of it." "You are perhaps a Mason yourself!" broke suddenly
from Alyosha. "You don't believe in God," he added, speaking this
time very sorrowfully. He fancied besides that his brother was
looking at him ironically. "How does your poem end?" he asked,
suddenly looking down. "Or was it the end?" "I meant to end it like
this. When the Inquisitor ceased speaking he waited some time for
his Prisoner to answer him. His silence weighed down upon him. He
saw that the Prisoner had listened intently all the time, looking
gently in his face and evidently not wishing to reply. The old man
longed for him to say something, however bitter and terrible. But
He suddenly approached the old man in silence and softly kissed him
on his bloodless aged lips. That was all his answer. The old man
shuddered. His lips moved. He went to the door, opened it, and said
to Him: 'Go, and come no more… come not at all, never, never!' And
he let Him out into the dark alleys of the town. The Prisoner went
away." "And the old man?" "The kiss glows in his heart, but the old
man adheres to his idea." "And you with him, you too?" cried
Alyosha, mournfully. Ivan laughed. "Why, it's all nonsense,
Alyosha. It's only a senseless poem of a senseless student, who
could never write two lines of verse. Why do you take it so
seriously? Surely you don't suppose I am going straight off to the
Jesuits, to join the men who are correcting His work? Good Lord,
it's no business of mine. I told you, all I want is to live on to
thirty, and then… dash the cup to the ground!" "But the little
sticky leaves, and the precious tombs, and the blue sky, and the
woman you love! How will you live, how will you love them?" Alyosha
cried sorrowfully. "With such a hell in your heart and your head,
how can you? No, that's just what you are going away for, to join
them… if not, you will kill yourself, you can't endure it!" "There
is a strength to endure everything," Ivan said with a cold smile.
"The strength of the Karamazovs- the strength of the Karamazov
baseness." "To sink into debauchery, to stifle your soul with
corruption, yes?" "Possibly even that… only perhaps till I am
thirty I shall escape it, and then-" "How will you escape it? By
what will you escape it? That's impossible with your ideas." "In
the Karamazov way, again." "'Everything is lawful,' you mean?
Everything is lawful, is that it?" Ivan scowled, and all at once
turned strangely pale. "Ah, you've caught up yesterday's phrase,
which so offended Muisov- and which Dmitri pounced upon so naively
and paraphrased!" he smiled queerly. "Yes, if you like, 'everything
is lawful' since the word has been said, I won't deny it. And
Mitya's version isn't bad." Alyosha looked at him in silence. "I
thought that going away from here I have you at least," Ivan said
suddenly, with unexpected feeling; "but now I see that there is no
place for me even in your heart, my dear hermit. The formula, 'all
is lawful,' I won't renounce- will you renounce me for that, yes?"
Alyosha got up, went to him and softly kissed him on the lips.
"That's plagiarism," cried Ivan, highly delighted. "You stole that
from my poem. Thank you though. Get up, Alyosha, it's time we were
going, both of us." They went out, but stopped when they reached
the entrance of the restaurant. "Listen, Alyosha," Ivan began in a
resolute voice, "if I am really able to care for the sticky little
leaves I shall only love them, remembering you. It's enough for me
that you are somewhere here, and I shan't lose my desire for life
yet. Is that enough for you? Take it as a declaration of love if
you like. And now you go to the right and I to the left. And it's
enough, do you hear, enough. I mean even if I don't go away
to-morrow (I think I certainly shall go) and we meet again, don't
say a word more on these subjects. I beg that particularly. And
about Dmitri too, I ask you specially, never speak to me again," he
added, with sudden irritation; "it's all exhausted, it has all been
said over and over again, hasn't it? And I'll make you one promise
in return for it. When at thirty, I want to 'dash the cup to the
ground,' wherever I may be I'll come to have one more talk with
you, even though it were from America, you may be sure of that.
I'll come on purpose. It will be very interesting to have a look at
you, to see what you'll be by that time. It's rather a solemn
promise, you see. And we really may be parting for seven years or
ten. Come, go now to your Pater Seraphicus, he is dying. If he dies
without you, you will be angry with me for having kept you.
Good-bye, kiss me once more; that's right, now go." Ivan turned
suddenly and went his way without looking back. It was just as
Dmitri had left Alyosha the day before, though the parting had been
very different. The strange resemblance flashed like an arrow
through Alyosha's mind in the distress and dejection of that
moment. He waited a little, looking after his brother. He suddenly
noticed that Ivan swayed as he walked and that his right shoulder
looked lower than his left. He had never noticed it before. But all
at once he turned too, and almost ran to the monastery. It was
nearly dark, and he felt almost frightened; something new was
growing up in him for which he could not account. The wind had
risen again as on the previous evening, and the ancient pines
murmured gloomily about him when he entered the hermitage copse. He
almost ran. "Pater Seraphicus- he got that name from somewhere-
where from?" Alyosha wondered. "Ivan, poor Ivan, and when shall I
see you again?… Here is the hermitage. Yes, yes, that he is, Pater
Seraphicus, he will save me- from him and for ever!" Several times
afterwards he wondered how he could, on leaving Ivan, so completely
forget his brother Dmitri, though he had that morning, only a few
hours before, so firmly resolved to find him and not to give up
doing so, even should he be unable to return to the monastery that
night.




