"I'm bound to admit the fact," Smerdyakov drawled with pedantic
composure, "that I have a secret with Fyodor Pavlovitch in this
business. As you know yourself (if only you do know it) he has for
several days past locked himself in as soon as night or even
evening comes on. Of late you've been going upstairs to your room
early every evening, and yesterday you did not come down at all,
and so perhaps you don't know how carefully he has begun to lock
himself in at night, and even if Grigory Vassilyevitch comes to the
door he won't open to him till he hears his voice. But Grigory
Vassilyevitch does not come, because I wait upon him alone in his
room now. That's the arrangement he made himself ever since this
to-do with Agrafena Alexandrovna began. But at night, by his
orders, I go away to the lodge so that I don't get to sleep till
midnight, but am on the watch, getting up and walking about the
yard, waiting for Agrafena Alexandrovna to come. For the last few
days he's been perfectly frantic expecting her. What he argues is,
she is afraid of him, Dmitri Fyodorovitch (Mitya, as he calls him),
'and so,' says he, 'she'll come the back-way, late at night, to me.
You look out for her,' says he, 'till midnight and later; and if
she does come, you run up and knock at my door or at the window
from the garden. Knock at first twice, rather gently, and then
three times more quickly, then,' says he, 'I shall understand at
once that she has come, and will open the door to you quietly.'
Another signal he gave me in case anything unexpected happens. At
first, two knocks, and then, after an interval, another much
louder. Then he will understand that something has happened
suddenly and that I must see him, and he will open to me so that I
can go and speak to him. That's all in case Agrafena Alexandrovna
can't come herself, but sends a message. Besides, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch might come, too, so I must let him know he is near.
His honour is awfully afraid of Dmitri Fyodorovitch, so that even
if Agrafena Alexandrovna had come and were locked in with him, and
Dmitri Fyodorovitch were to turn up anywhere near at the time, I
should be bound to let him know at once, knocking three times. So
that the first signal of five knocks means Agrafena Alexandrovna
has come, while the second signal of three knocks means 'something
important to tell you.' His honour has shown me them several times
and explained them. And as in the whole universe no one knows of
these signals but myself and his honour, so he'd open the door
without the slightest hesitation and without calling out (he is
awfully afraid of calling out aloud). Well, those signals are known
to Dmitri Fyodorovitch too, now."

"How are they known? Did you tell him? How dared you tell
him?"

"It was through fright I did it. How could I dare to keep it
back from him? Dmitri Fyodorovitch kept persisting every day, 'You
are deceiving me, you are hiding something from me! I'll break both
your legs for you.' So I told him those secret signals that he
might see my slavish devotion, and might be satisfied that I was
not deceiving him, but was telling him all I could."

"If you think that he'll make use of those signals and try to
get in, don't let him in."

"But if I should be laid up with a fit, how can I prevent him
coming in then, even if I dared prevent him, knowing how desperate
he is?"

"Hang it! How can you be so sure you are going to have a fit,
confound you? Are you laughing at me?"

"How could I dare laugh at you? I am in no laughing humour with
this fear on me. I feel I am going to have a fit. I have a
presentiment. Fright alone will bring it on."

"Confound it! If you are laid up, Grigory will be on the watch.
Let Grigory know beforehand; he will be sure not to let him
in."

"I should never dare to tell Grigory Vassilyevitch about the
signals without orders from my master. And as for Grigory
Vassilyevitch hearing him and not admitting him, he has been ill
ever since yesterday, and Marfa Ignatyevna intends to give him
medicine to-morrow. They've just arranged it. It's a very strange
remedy of hers. Marfa Ignatyevna knows of a preparation and always
keeps it. It's a strong thing made from some herb. She has the
secret of it, and she always gives it to Grigory Vassilyevitch
three times a year when his lumbago's so bad he is almost paralysed
by it. Then she takes a towel, wets it with the stuff, and rubs his
whole back for half an hour till it's quite red and swollen, and
what's left in the bottle she gives him to drink with a special
prayer; but not quite all, for on such occasions she leaves some
for herself, and drinks it herself. And as they never take strong
drink, I assure you they both drop asleep at once and sleep sound a
very long time. And when Grigory Vassilyevitch wakes up he is
perfectly well after it, but Marfa Ignatyevna always has a headache
from it. So, if Marfa Ignatyevna carries out her intention
to-morrow, they won't hear anything and hinder Dmitri Fyodorovitch.
They'll be asleep."

"What a rigmarole! And it all seems to happen at once, as though
it were planned. You'll have a fit and they'll both be
unconscious," cried Ivan. "But aren't you trying to arrange it so?"
broke from him suddenly, and he frowned threateningly.

"How could I?… And why should I, when it all depends on Dmitri
Fyodorovitch and his plans?… If he means to do anything, he'll do
it; but if not, I shan't be thrusting him upon his father."
