
"And why should he go to father, especially on the sly, if, as
you say yourself, Agrafena Alexandrovna won't come at all?" Ivan
went on, turning white with anger. "You say that yourself, and all
the while I've been here, I've felt sure it was all the old man's
fancy, and the creature won't come to him. Why should Dmitri break
in on him if she doesn't come? Speak, I want to know what you are
thinking!"

"You know yourself why he'll come. What's the use of what I
think? His honour will come simply because he is in a rage or
suspicious on account of my illness perhaps, and he'll dash in, as
he did yesterday through impatience to search the rooms, to see
whether she hasn't escaped him on the sly. He is perfectly well
aware, too, that Fyodor Pavlovitch has a big envelope with three
thousand roubles in it, tied up with ribbon and sealed with three
seals. On it is written in his own hand 'To my angel Grushenka, if
she will come,' to which he added three days later, 'for my little
chicken.' There's no knowing what that might do."

"Nonsense!" cried Ivan, almost beside himself. "Dmitri won't
come to steal money and kill my father to do it. He might have
killed him yesterday on account of Grushenka, like the frantic,
savage fool he is, but he won't steal."

"He is in very great need of money now- the greatest need, Ivan
Fyodorovitch. You don't know in what need he is," Smerdyakov
explained, with perfect composure and remarkable distinctness. "He
looks on that three thousand as his own, too. He said so to me
himself. 'My father still owes me just three thousand,' he said.
And besides that, consider, Ivan Fyodorovitch, there is something
else perfectly true. It's as good as certain, so to say, that
Agrafena Alexandrovna will force him, if only she cares to, to
marry her- the master himself, I mean, Fyodor Pavlovitch- if only
she cares to, and of course she may care to. All I've said is that
she won't come, but maybe she's looking for more than that- I mean
to be mistress here. I know myself that Samsonov, her merchant, was
laughing with her about it, telling her quite openly that it would
not be at all a stupid thing to do. And she's got plenty of sense.
She wouldn't marry a beggar like Dmitri Fyodorovitch. So, taking
that into consideration, Ivan Fyodorovitch, reflect that then
neither Dmitri Fyodorovitch nor yourself and your brother, Alexey
Fyodorovitch, would have anything after the master's death, not a
rouble, for Agrafena Alexandrovna would marry him simply to get
hold of the whole, all the money there is. But if your father were
to die now, there'd be some forty thousand for sure, even for
Dmitri Fyodorovitch whom he hates so, for he's made no will… .
Dmitri Fyodorovitch knows all that very well."

A sort of shudder passed over Ivan's face. He suddenly
flushed.

"Then why on earth," he suddenly interrupted Smerdyakov, "do you
advise me to go to Tchermashnya? What did you mean by that? If I go
away, you see what will happen here." Ivan drew his breath with
difficulty.

"Precisely so," said Smerdyakov, softly and reasonably, watching
Ivan intently, however.

"What do you mean by 'precisely so'?" Ivan questioned him, with
a menacing light in his eyes, restraining himself with
difficulty.

"I spoke because I felt sorry for you. If I were in your place I
should simply throw it all up… rather than stay on in such a
position," answered Smerdyakov, with the most candid air looking at
Ivan's flashing eyes. They were both silent.

"You seem to be a perfect idiot, and what's more… an awful
scoundrel, too." Ivan rose suddenly from the bench. He was about to
pass straight through the gate, but he stopped short and turned to
Smerdyakov. Something strange followed. Ivan, in a sudden paroxysm,
bit his lip, clenched his fists, and, in another minute, would have
flung himself on Smerdyakov. The latter, anyway, noticed it at the
same moment, started, and shrank back. But the moment passed
without mischief to Smerdyakov, and Ivan turned in silence, as it
seemed in perplexity, to the gate.

