


Chapter

7
"It's Always Worth While Speaking to a Clever Man"


AND in the same nervous frenzy, too, he spoke. Meeting Fyodor
Pavlovitch in the drawing-room directly he went in, he shouted to
him, waving his hands, "I am going upstairs to my room, not in to
you. Good-bye!" and passed by, trying not even to look at his
father. Very possibly the old man was too hateful to him at that
moment; but such an unceremonious display of hostility was a
surprise even to Fyodor Pavlovitch. And the old man evidently
wanted to tell him something at once and had come to meet him in
the drawing-room on purpose. Receiving this amiable greeting, he
stood still in silence and with an ironical air watched his son
going upstairs, till he passed out of sight.

"What's the matter with him?" he promptly asked Smerdyakov, who
had followed Ivan.

"Angry about something. Who can tell?" the valet muttered
evasively.

"Confound him! Let him be angry then. Bring in the samovar, and
get along with you. Look sharp! No news?"

Then followed a series of questions such as Smerdyakov had just
complained of to Ivan, all relating to his expected visitor, and
these questions we will omit. Half an hour later the house was
locked, and the crazy old man was wandering along through the rooms
in excited expectation of hearing every minute the five knocks
agreed upon. Now and then he peered out into the darkness, seeing
nothing.

It was very late, but Ivan was still awake and reflecting. He
sat up late that night, till two o'clock. But we will not give an
account of his thoughts, and this is not the place to look into
that soul- its turn will come. And even if one tried, it would be
very hard to give an account of them, for there were no thoughts in
his brain, but something very vague, and, above all, intense
excitement. He felt himself that he had lost his bearings. He was
fretted, too, by all sorts of strange and almost surprising
desires; for instance, after midnight he suddenly had an intense
irresistible inclination to go down, open the door, go to the lodge
and beat Smerdyakov. But if he had been asked why, he could not
have given any exact reason, except perhaps that he loathed the
valet as one who had insulted him more gravely than anyone in the
world. On the other hand, he was more than once that night overcome
by a sort of inexplicable humiliating terror, which he felt
positively paralysed his physical powers. His head ached and he was
giddy. A feeling of hatred was rankling in his heart, as though he
meant to avenge himself on someone. He even hated Alyosha,
recalling the conversation he had just had with him. At moments he
hated himself intensely. Of Katerina Ivanovna he almost forgot to
think, and wondered greatly at this afterwards, especially as he
remembered perfectly that when he had protested so valiantly to
Katerina Ivanovna that he would go away next day to Moscow,
something had whispered in his heart, "That's nonsense, you are not
going, and it won't be so easy to tear yourself away as you are
boasting now."

Remembering that night long afterwards, Ivan recalled with
peculiar repulsion how he had suddenly got up from the sofa and had
stealthily, as though he were afraid of being watched, opened the
door, gone out on the staircase and listened to Fyodor Pavlovitch
stirring down below, had listened a long while- some five minutes-
with a sort of strange curiosity, holding his breath while his
heart throbbed. And why he had done all this, why he was listening,
he could not have said. That "action" all his life afterwards he
called "infamous," and at the bottom of his heart, he thought of it
as the basest action of his life. For Fyodor Pavlovitch himself he
felt no hatred at that moment, but was simply intensely curious to
know how he was walking down there below and what he must be doing
now. He wondered and imagined how he must be peeping out of the
dark windows and stopping in the middle of the room, listening,
listening- for someone to knock. Ivan went out on the stairs twice
to listen like this.
