
It was the end of June, and our meeting was to take place at
seven o'clock the next day on the outskirts of the town- and then
something happened that in very truth was the turning point of my
life. In the evening, returning home in a savage and brutal humour,
I flew into a rage with my orderly Afanasy, and gave him two blows
in the face with all my might, so that it was covered with blood.
He had not long been in my service and I had struck him before, but
never with such ferocious cruelty. And, believe me, though it's
forty years ago, I recall it now with shame and pain. I went to bed
and slept for about three hours; when I waked up the day was
breaking. I got up- I did not want to sleep any more- I went to the
window- opened it, it looked out upon the garden; I saw the sun
rising; it was warm and beautiful, the birds were singing.

"What's the meaning of it?" I thought. "I feel in my heart as it
were something vile and shameful. Is it because I am going to shed
blood? No," I thought, "I feel it's not that. Can it be that I am
afraid of death, afraid of being killed? No, that's not it, that's
not it at all."… And all at once I knew what it was: it was because
I had beaten Afanasy the evening before! It all rose before my
mind, it all was, as it were, repeated over again; he stood before
me and I was beating him straight on the face and he was holding
his arms stiffly down, his head erect, his eyes fixed upon me as
though on parade. He staggered at every blow and did not even dare
to raise his hands to protect himself. That is what a man has been
brought to, and that was a man beating a fellow creature! What a
crime! It was as though a sharp dagger had pierced me right
through. I stood as if I were struck dumb, while the sun was
shining, the leaves were rejoicing and the birds were trilling the
praise of God… . I hid my face in my hands, fell on my bed and
broke into a storm of tears. And then I remembered by brother
Markel and what he said on his death-bed to his servants: "My dear
ones, why do you wait on me, why do you love me, am I worth your
waiting on me?"

"Yes, am I worth it?" flashed through my mind. "After all what
am I worth, that another man, a fellow creature, made in the
likeness and image of God, should serve me?" For the first time in
my life this question forced itself upon me. He had said, "Mother,
my little heart, in truth we are each responsible to all for all,
it's only that men don't know this. If they knew it, the world
would be a paradise at once."

"God, can that too be false?" I thought as I wept. "In truth,
perhaps, I am more than all others responsible for all, a greater
sinner than all men in the world." And all at once the whole truth
in its full light appeared to me: what was I going to do? I was
going to kill a good, clever, noble man, who had done me no wrong,
and by depriving his wife of happiness for the rest of her life, I
should be torturing and killing her too. I lay thus in my bed with
my face in the pillow, heedless how the time was passing. Suddenly
my second, the ensign, came in with the pistols to fetch me.

"Ah," said he, "it's a good thing you are up already, it's time
we were off, come along!"

I did not know what to do and hurried to and fro undecided; we
went out to the carriage, however.

"Wait here a minute," I said to him. "I'll be back directly, I
have forgotten my purse."

And I ran back alone, to Afanasy's little room.

"Afanasy," I said, "I gave you two blows on the face yesterday,
forgive me," I said.

He started as though he were frightened, and looked at me; and I
saw that it was not enough, and on the spot, in my full officer's
uniform, I dropped at his feet and bowed my head to the ground.

