"What do you mean by isolation?" I asked him.

"Why, the isolation that prevails everywhere, above all in our
age- it has not fully developed, it has not reached its limit yet.
For everyone strives to keep his individuality as apart as
possible, wishes to secure the greatest possible fullness of life
for himself; but meantime all his efforts result not in attaining
fullness of life but self-destruction, for instead of
self-realisation he ends by arriving at complete solitude. All
mankind in our age have split up into units, they all keep apart,
each in his own groove; each one holds aloof, hides himself and
hides what he has, from the rest, and he ends by being repelled by
others and repelling them. He heaps up riches by himself and
thinks, 'How strong I am now and how secure,' and in his madness he
does not understand that the more he heaps up, the more he sinks
into self-destructive impotence. For he is accustomed to rely upon
himself alone and to cut himself off from the whole; he has trained
himself not to believe in the help of others, in men and in
humanity, and only trembles for fear he should lose his money and
the privileges that he has won for himself. Everywhere in these
days men have, in their mockery, ceased to understand that the true
security is to be found in social solidarity rather than in
isolated individual effort. But this terrible individualism must
inevitably have an end, and all will suddenly understand how
unnaturally they are separated from one another. It will be the
spirit of the time, and people will marvel that they have sat so
long in darkness without seeing the light. And then the sign of the
Son of Man will be seen in the heavens… . But, until then, we must
keep the banner flying. Sometimes even if he has to do it alone,
and his conduct seems to be crazy, a man must set an example, and
so draw men's souls out of their solitude, and spur them to some
act of brotherly love, that the great idea may not die."

Our evenings, one after another, were spent in such stirring and
fervent talk. I gave up society and visited my neighbours much less
frequently. Besides, my vogue was somewhat over. I say this, not as
blame, for they still loved me and treated me good-humouredly, but
there's no denying that fashion is a great power in society. I
began to regard my mysterious visitor with admiration, for besides
enjoying his intelligence, I began to perceive that he was brooding
over some plan in his heart, and was preparing himself perhaps for
a great deed. Perhaps he liked my not showing curiosity about his
secret, not seeking to discover it by direct question nor by
insinuation. But I noticed at last, that he seemed to show signs of
wanting to tell me something. This had become quite evident,
indeed, about a month after he first began to visit me.

"Do you know," he said to me once, "that people are very
inquisitive about us in the town and wonder why I come to see you
so often. But let them wonder, for soon all will be explained."

Sometimes an extraordinary agitation would come over him, and
almost always on such occasions he would get up and go away.
Sometimes he would fix a long piercing look upon me, and I thought,
"He will say something directly now." But he would suddenly begin
talking of something ordinary and familiar. He often complained of
headache too.

One day, quite unexpectedly indeed, after he had been talking
with great fervour a long time, I saw him suddenly turn pale, and
his face worked convulsively, while he stared persistently at
me.

"What's the matter?" I said; "do you feel ill?"- he had just
been complaining of headache.

"I… do you know… I murdered someone."

He said this and smiled with a face as white as chalk. "Why is
it he is smiling?" The thought flashed through my mind before I
realised anything else. I too turned pale.

"What are you saying?" I cried.

"You see," he said, with a pale smile, "how much it has cost me
to say the first word. Now I have said it, I feel I've taken the
first step and shall go on."
