
"Enough, dear son, enough, dear," he pronounced with feeling at
last. "Why do you weep? Rejoice and weep not. Don't you know that
this is the greatest of his days? Think only where he is now, at
this moment!"

Alyosha glanced at him, uncovering his face, which was swollen
with crying like a child's, but turned away at once without
uttering a word and hid his face in his hands again.

"Maybe it is well," said Father Paissy thoughtfully; "weep if
you must; Christ has sent you those tears."

"Your touching tears are but a relief to your spirit and will
serve to gladden your dear heart," he added to himself, walking
away from Alyosha, and thinking lovingly of him. He moved away
quickly, however, for he felt that he too might weep looking at
him.

Meanwhile the time was passing; the monastery services and the
requiems for the dead followed in their due course. Father Paissy
again took Father Iosif's place by the coffin and began reading the
Gospel. But before three o'clock in the afternoon that something
took place to which I alluded at the end of the last book,
something so unexpected by all of us and so contrary to the general
hope, that, I repeat, this trivial incident has been minutely
remembered to this day in our town and all the surrounding
neighbourhood. I may add here, for myself personally, that I feel
it almost repulsive that event which caused such frivolous
agitation and was such a stumbling-block to many, though in reality
it was the most natural and trivial matter. I should, of course,
have omitted all mention of it in my story, if it had not exerted a
very strong influence on the heart and soul of the chief, though
future, hero of my story, Alyosha, forming a crisis and
turning-point in his spiritual development, giving a shock to his
intellect, which finally strengthened it for the rest of his life
and gave it a definite aim.

And so, to return to our story. When before dawn they laid
Father Zossima's body in the coffin and brought it into the front
room, the question of opening the windows was raised among those
who were around the coffin. But this suggestion made casually by
someone was unanswered and almost unnoticed. Some of those present
may perhaps have inwardly noticed it, only to reflect that the
anticipation of decay and corruption from the body of such a saint
was an actual absurdity, calling for compassion (if not a smile)
for the lack of faith and the frivolity it implied. For they
expected something quite different.

And, behold, soon after midday there were signs of something, at
first only observed in silence by those who came in and out and
were evidently each afraid to communicate the thought in his mind.
But by three o'clock those signs had become so clear and
unmistakable, that the news swiftly reached all the monks and
visitors in the hermitage, promptly penetrated to the monastery,
throwing all the monks into amazement, and finally, in the shortest
possible time, spread to the town, exciting everyone in it,
believers and unbelievers alike. The unbelievers rejoiced, and as
for the believers some of them rejoiced even more than the
unbelievers, for "men love the downfall and disgrace of the
righteous," as the deceased elder had said in one of his
exhortations.

The fact is that a smell of decomposition began to come from the
coffin, growing gradually more marked, and by three o'clock it was
quite unmistakable. In all the past history of our monastery, no
such scandal could be recalled, and in no other circumstances could
such a scandal have been possible, as showed itself in unseemly
disorder immediately after this discovery among the very monks
themselves. Afterwards, even many years afterwards, some sensible
monks were amazed and horrified, when they recalled that day, that
the scandal could have reached such proportions. For in the past,
monks of very holy life had died, God-fearing old men, whose
saintliness was acknowledged by all, yet from their humble coffins,
too, the breath of corruption had come, naturally, as from all dead
bodies, but that had caused no scandal nor even the slightest
excitement. Of course, there had been, in former times, saints in
the monastery whose memory was carefully preserved and whose
relics, according to tradition, showed no signs of corruption. This
fact was regarded by the monks as touching and mysterious, and the
tradition of it was cherished as something blessed and miraculous,
and as a promise, by God's grace, of still greater glory from their
tombs in the future.

One such, whose memory was particularly cherished, was an old
monk, Job, who had died seventy years before at the age of a
hundred and five. He had been a celebrated ascetic, rigid in
fasting and silence, and his tomb was pointed out to all visitors
on their arrival with peculiar respect and mysterious hints of
great hopes connected with it. (That was the very tomb on which
Father Paissy had found Alyosha sitting in the morning.) Another
memory cherished in the monastery was that of the famous Father
Varsonofy, who was only recently dead and had preceded Father
Zossima in the eldership. He was reverenced during his lifetime as
a crazy saint by all the pilgrims to the monastery. There was a
tradition that both of these had lain in their coffins as though
alive, that they had shown no signs of decomposition when they were
buried and that there had been a holy light in their faces. And
some people even insisted that a sweet fragrance came from their
bodies.

Yet, in spite of these edifying memories, it would be difficult
to explain the frivolity, absurdity and malice that were manifested
beside the coffin of Father Zossima. It is my private opinion that
several different causes were simultaneously at work, one of which
was the deeply rooted hostility to the institution of elders as a
pernicious innovation, an antipathy hidden deep in the hearts of
many of the monks. Even more powerful was jealousy of the dead
man's saintliness, so firmly established during lifetime that it
was almost a forbidden thing to question it. For though the late
elder had won over many hearts, more by love than by miracles, and
had gathered round him a mass of loving adherents, none the less,
in fact, rather the more on that account he had awakened jealousy
and so had come to have bitter enemies, secret and open, not only
in the monastery but in the world outside it. He did no one any
harm, but "Why do they think him so saintly?" And that question
alone, gradually repeated, gave rise at last to an intense,
insatiable hatred of him. That, I believe, was why many people were
extremely delighted at the smell of decomposition which came so
quickly, for not a day had passed since his death. At the same time
there were some among those who had been hitherto reverently
devoted to the elder, who were almost mortified and personally
affronted by this incident. This was how the thing happened.

