
I have mentioned above, that though Father Paissy standing firm
and immovable reading the Gospel over the coffin, could not hear
nor see what was passing outside the cell, he gauged most of it
correctly in his heart, for he knew the men surrounding him well.
He was not shaken by it, but awaited what would come next without
fear, watching with penetration and insight for the outcome of the
general excitement.

Suddenly an extraordinary uproar in the passage in open defiance
of decorum burst on his ears. The door was flung open and Father
Ferapont appeared in the doorway. Behind him there could be seen
accompanying him a crowd of monks, together with many people from
the town. They did not, however, enter the cell, but stood at the
bottom of the steps, waiting to see what Father Ferapont would say
or do. For they felt with a certain awe, in spite of their
audacity, that he had not come for nothing. Standing in the
doorway, Father Ferapont raised his arms, and under his right arm
the keen inquisitive little eyes of the monk from Obdorsk peeped
in. He alone, in his intense curiosity, could not resist running up
the steps after Father Ferapont. The others, on the contrary,
pressed farther back in sudden alarm when the door was noisily
flung open. Holding his hands aloft, Father Ferapont suddenly
roared:

"Casting out I cast out!" and, turning in all directions, he
began at once making the sign of the cross at each of the four
walls and four corners of the cell in succession. All who
accompanied Father Ferapont immediately understood his action. For
they knew he always did this wherever he went, and that he would
not sit down or say a word, till he had driven out the evil
spirits.

"Satan, go hence! Satan, go hence!" he repeated at each sign of
the cross. "Casting out I cast out," he roared again.

He was wearing his coarse gown girt with a rope. His bare chest,
covered with grey hair, could be seen under his hempen shirt. His
feet were bare. As soon as he began waving his arms, the cruel
irons he wore under his gown could be heard clanking.

Father Paissy paused in his reading, stepped forward and stood
before him waiting

"What have you come for, worthy Father? Why do you offend
against good order? Why do you disturb the peace of the flock?" he
said at last, looking sternly at him.

"What have I come for? You ask why? What is your faith?" shouted
Father Ferapont crazily. "I've come here to drive out your
visitors, the unclean devils. I've come to see how many have
gathered here while I have been away. I want to sweep them out with
a birch broom."

"You cast out the evil spirit, but perhaps you are serving him
yourself," Father Paissy went on fearlessly. "And who can say of
himself 'I am holy'? Can you, Father?"

"I am unclean, not holy. I would not sit in an arm-chair and
would not have them bow down to me as an idol," thundered Father
Ferapont. "Nowadays folk destroy the true faith. The dead man, your
saint," he turned to the crowd, pointing with his finger to the
coffin, "did not believe in devils. He gave medicine to keep off
the devils. And so they have become as common as spiders in the
corners. And now he has begun to stink himself. In that we see a
great sign from God."

