The incident he referred to was this. One of the monks was
haunted in his dreams and, later on, in waking moments, by visions
of evil spirits. When in the utmost terror he confided this to
Father Zossima, the elder had advised continual prayer and rigid
fasting. But when that was of no use, he advised him while
persisting in prayer and fasting, to take a special medicine. Many
persons were shocked at the time and wagged their heads as they
talked over it- and most of all Father Ferapont, to whom some of
the censorious had hastened to report this "extraordinary" counsel
on the part of the elder.

"Go away, Father!" said Father Paissy, in a commanding voice,
"it's not for man to judge but for God. Perhaps we see here a
'sign' which neither you, nor I, nor anyone of us is able to
comprehend. Go, Father, and do not trouble the flock!" he repeated
impressively.

"He did not keep the fasts according to the rule and therefore
the sign has come. That is clear and it's a sin to hide it," the
fanatic, carried away by a zeal that outstripped his reason, would
not be quieted. "He was seduced by sweetmeats, ladies brought them
to him in their pockets, he sipped tea, he worshipped his belly,
filling it with sweet things and his mind with haughty thoughts… .
And for this he is put to shame… ."

"You speak lightly, Father." Father Paissy, too, raised his
voice. "I admire your fasting and severities, but you speak lightly
like some frivolous youth, fickle and childish. Go away, Father, I
command you!" Father Paissy thundered in conclusion.

"I will go," said Ferapont, seeming somewhat taken aback, but
still as bitter. "You learned men! You are so clever you look down
upon my humbleness. I came hither with little learning and here I
have forgotten what I did know; God Himself has preserved me in my
weakness from your subtlety."

Father Paissy stood over him, waiting resolutely. Father
Ferapont paused and, suddenly leaning his cheek on his hand
despondently, pronounced in a sing-song, voice, looking at the
coffin of the dead elder:

"To-morrow they will sing over him 'Our Helper and Defender'- a
splendid anthem- and over me when I die all they'll sing will be
'What Earthly Joy'- a little cantical,"
[10]
he added
with tearful regret. "You are proud and puffed up, this is a vain
place!" he shouted suddenly like a madman, and with a wave of his
hand he turned quickly and quickly descended the steps. The crowd
awaiting him below wavered; some followed him at once and some
lingered, for the cell was still open, and Father Paissy, following
Father Ferapont on to the steps, stood watching him. the excited
old fanatic was not completely silenced. Walking twenty steps away,
he suddenly turned towards the setting sun, raised both his arms
and, as though someone had cut him down, fell to the ground with a
loud scream. "My God has conquered! Christ has conquered the
setting sun!" he shouted frantically, stretching up his hands to
the sun, and falling face downwards on the ground, he sobbed like a
little child, shaken by his tears and spreading out his arms on the
ground. Then all rushed up to him; there were exclamations and
sympathetic sobs… a kind of frenzy seemed to take possession of
them all. "This is the one who is a saint! This is the one who is a
holy man!" some cried aloud, losing their fear. "This is he who
should be an elder," others added malignantly. "He wouldn't be an
elder… he would refuse… he wouldn't serve a cursed innovation… he
wouldn't imitate their foolery," other voices chimed in at once.
And it is hard to say how far they might have gone, but at that
moment the bell rang summoning them to service. All began crossing
themselves at once. Father Ferapont, too, got up and crossing
himself went back to his cell without looking round, still uttering
exclamations which were utterly incoherent. A few followed him, but
the greater number dispersed, hastening to service. Father Paissy
let Father Iosif read in his place and went down. The frantic
outcries of bigots could not shake him, but his heart was suddenly
filled with melancholy for some special reason and he felt that. He
stood still and suddenly wondered, "Why am I sad even to
dejection?" and immediately grasped with surprise that his sudden
sadness was due to a very small and special cause. In the crowd
thronging at the entrance to the cell, he had noticed Alyosha and
he remembered that he had felt at once a pang at heart on seeing
him. "Can that boy mean so much to my heart now?" he asked himself,
wondering. At that moment Alyosha passed him, hurrying away, but
not in the direction of the church. Their eyes met. Alyosha quickly
turned away his eyes and dropped them to the ground, and from the
boy's look alone, Father Paissy guessed what a great change was
taking place in him at that moment. "Have you, too, fallen into
temptation?" cried Father Paissy. "Can you be with those of little
faith?" he added mournfully. Alyosha stood still and gazed vaguely
at Father Paissy, but quickly turned his eyes away again and again
looked on the ground. He stood sideways and did not turn his face
to Father Paissy, who watched him attentively. "Where are you
hastening? The bell calls to service," he asked again, but again
Alyosha gave no answer. "Are you leaving the hermitage? What,
without asking leave, without asking a blessing?" Alyosha suddenly
gave a wry smile, cast a strange, very strange, look at the Father
to whom his former guide, the former sovereign of his heart and
mind, his beloved elder, had confided him as he lay dying. And
suddenly, still without speaking, waved his hand, as though not
caring even to be respectful, and with rapid steps walked towards
the gates away from the hermitage. "You will come back again!"
murmured Father Paissy, looking after him with sorrowful
surprise.




