
"Blessed man! Give me your hand to kiss."

Fyodor Pavlovitch skipped up, and imprinted a rapid kiss on the
elder's thin hand. "It is, it is pleasant to take offence. You said
that so well, as I never heard it before. Yes, I have been all my
life taking offence, to please myself, taking offence on aesthetic
grounds, for it is not so much pleasant as distinguished sometimes
to be insulted- that you had forgotten, great elder, it is
distinguished! I shall make a note of that. But I have been lying,
lying positively my whole life long, every day and hour of it. Of a
truth, I am a lie, and the father of lies. Though I believe I am
not the father of lies. I am getting mixed in my texts. Say, the
son of lies, and that will be enough. Only… my angel… may sometimes
talk about Diderot! Diderot will do no harm, though sometimes a
word will do harm. Great elder, by the way, I was forgetting,
though I had been meaning for the last two years to come here on
purpose to ask and to find out something. Only do tell Pyotr
Alexandrovitch not to interrupt me. Here is my question: Is it
true, great Father, that the story is told somewhere in the Lives
of the Saints of a holy saint martyred for his faith who, when his
head was cut off at last, stood up, picked up his head, and,
'courteously kissing it,' walked a long way, carrying it in his
hands. Is that true or not, honoured Father?"

"No, it is untrue," said the elder.

"There is nothing of the kind in all the lives of the saints.
What saint do you say the story is told of?" asked the Father
Librarian.

"I do not know what saint. I do not know, and can't tell. I was
deceived. I was told the story. I had heard it, and do you know who
told it? Pyotr Alexandrovitch Miusov here, was so angry just now
about Diderot. He it was who told the story."

"I have never told it you, I never speak to you at all."

"It is true you did not tell me, but you told it when I was
present. It was three years ago. I mentioned it because by that
ridiculous story you shook my faith, Pyotr Alexandrovitch. You knew
nothing of it, but I went home with my faith shaken, and I have
been getting more and more shaken ever since. Yes, Pyotr
Alexandrovitch, you were the cause of a great fall. That was not a
Diderot!

Fyodor Pavlovitch got excited and pathetic, though it was
perfectly clear to everyone by now that he was playing a part
again. Yet Miusov was stung by his words.

"What nonsense, and it is all nonsense," he muttered. "I may
really have told it, some time or other… but not to you. I was told
it myself. I heard it in Paris from a Frenchman. He told me it was
read at our mass from the Lives of the Saints… he was a very
learned man who had made a special study of Russian statistics and
had lived a long time in Russia… . I have not read the Lives of the
Saints myself, and I am not going to read them… all sorts of things
are said at dinner- we were dining then."

"Yes, you were dining then, and so I lost my faith!" said Fyodor
Pavlovitch, mimicking him.

