
"Much you know about balls."

"And do you know much about them?"

"I have seen a ball. The year before last, Kuzma Kuzmitch's son
was married and I looked on from the gallery. Do you suppose I want
to be talking to you, Rakitin, while a prince like this is standing
here. Such a visitor! Alyosha, my dear boy, I gaze at you and can't
believe my eyes. Good heavens, can you have come here to see me! To
tell you the truth, I never had a thought of seeing you and I
didn't think that you would ever come and see me. Though this is
not the moment now, I am awfully glad to see you. Sit down on the
sofa, here, that's right, my bright young moon. I really can't take
it in even now… . Eh, Rakitin, if only you had brought him
yesterday or the day before! But I am glad as it is! Perhaps it's
better he has come now, at such a moment, and not the day before
yesterday."

She gaily sat down beside Alyosha on the sofa, looking at him
with positive delight. And she really was glad, she was not lying
when she said so. Her eyes glowed, her lips laughed, but it was a
good-hearted merry laugh. Alyosha had not expected to see such a
kind expression in her face… . He had hardly met her till the day
before, he had formed an alarming idea of her, and had been
horribly distressed the day before by the spiteful and treacherous
trick she had played on Katerina Ivanovna. He was greatly surprised
to find her now altogether different from what he had expected.
And, crushed as he was by his own sorrow, his eyes involuntarily
rested on her with attention. Her whole manner seemed changed for
the better since yesterday, there was scarcely any trace of that
mawkish sweetness in her speech, of that voluptuous softness in her
movements. Everything was simple and good-natured, her gestures
were rapid, direct, confiding, but she was greatly excited.

"Dear me, how everything comes together to-day!" she chattered
on again. "And why I am so glad to see you, Alyosha, I couldn't say
myself! If you ask me, I couldn't tell you."

"Come, don't you know why you're glad?" said Rakitin, grinning.
"You used to be always pestering me to bring him, you'd some
object, I suppose."

"I had a different object once, but now that's over, this is not
the moment. I say, I want you to have something nice. I am so
good-natured now. You sit down, too, Rakitin; why are you standing?
You've sat down already? There's no fear of Rakitin's forgetting to
look after himself. Look, Alyosha, he's sitting there opposite us,
so offended that I didn't ask him to sit down before you. Ugh,
Rakitin is such a one to take offence!" laughed Grushenka. "Don't
be angry, Rakitin, I'm kind to-day. Why are you so depressed,
Alyosha? Are you afraid of me?" She peeped into his eyes with merry
mockery.

"He's sad. The promotion has not been given," boomed
Rakitin.

"His elder stinks."

"What? You are talking some nonsense, you want to say something
nasty. Be quiet, you stupid! Let me sit on your knee, Alyosha, like
this." She suddenly skipped forward and jumped, laughing, on his
knee, like a nestling kitten, with her right arm about his neck.
"I'll cheer you up, my pious boy. Yes, really, will you let me sit
on your knee? You won't be angry? If you tell me, I'll get
off?"

