


Chapter

4
Cana of Galilee


IT was very late, according to the monastery ideas, when Alyosha
returned to the hermitage; the door-keeper let him in by a special
entrance. It had struck nine o'clock- the hour of rest and repose
after a day of such agitation for all. Alyosha timidly opened the
door and went into the elder's cell where his coffin was now
standing. There was no one in the cell but Father Paissy, reading
the Gospel in solitude over the coffin, and the young novice
Porfiry, who, exhausted by the previous night's conversation and
the disturbing incidents of the day, was sleeping the deep sound
sleep of youth on the floor of the other room. Though Father Paissy
heard Alyosha come in, he did not even look in his direction.
Alyosha turned to the right from the door to the corner, fell on
his knees and began to pray.

His soul was overflowing but with mingled feelings; no single
sensation stood out distinctly; on the contrary, one drove out
another in a slow, continual rotation. But there was a sweetness in
his heart and, strange to say, Alyosha was not surprised at it.
Again he saw that coffin before him, the hidden dead figure so
precious to him, but the weeping and poignant grief of the morning
was no longer aching in his soul. As soon as he came in, he fell
down before the coffin as before a holy shrine, but joy, joy was
glowing in his mind and in his heart. The one window of the cell
was open, the air was fresh and cool. "So the smell must have
become stronger, if they opened the window," thought Alyosha. But
even this thought of the smell of corruption, which had seemed to
him so awful and humiliating a few hours before, no longer made him
feel miserable or indignant. He began quietly praying, but he soon
felt that he was praying almost mechanically. Fragments of thought
floated through his soul, flashed like stars and went out again at
once, to be succeeded by others. But yet there was reigning in his
soul a sense of the wholeness of things- something steadfast and
comforting- and he was aware of it himself. Sometimes he began
praying ardently, he longed to pour out his thankfulness and
love…

But when he had begun to pray, he passed suddenly to something
else, and sank into thought, forgetting both the prayer and what
had interrupted it. He began listening to what Father Paissy was
reading, but worn out with exhaustion he gradually began to
doze.

"And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee,"
read Father Paissy. "And the mother of Jesus was there; And both
Jesus was there; And both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to
the marriage."

"Marriage? What's that?… A marriage!" floated whirling through
Alyosha's mind. "There is happiness for her, too… She has gone to
the feast… . No, she has not taken the knife… . That was only a
tragic phrase… . Well… tragic phrases should be forgiven, they must
be. Tragic phrases comfort the heart… Without them, sorrow would be
too heavy for men to bear. Rakitin has gone off to the back alley.
As long as Rakitin broods over his wrongs, he will always go off to
the back alley… . But the high road… The road is wide and straight
and bright as crystal, and the sun is at the end of it… . Ah!…
What's being read?"…

"And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him,
They have no wine"… Alyosha heard.

"Ah, yes, I was missing that, and I didn't want to miss it, I
love that passage: it's Cana of Galilee, the first miracle… . Ah,
that miracle! Ah, that sweet miracle! It was not men's grief, but
their joy Christ visited, He worked His first miracle to help men's
gladness… . 'He who loves men loves their gladness, too'… He was
always repeating that, it was one of his leading ideas… 'There's no
living without joy,' Mitya says… . Yes, Mitya… . 'Everything that
is true and good is always full of forgiveness,' he used to say
that, too"…
