"How can I thank you, Kuzma Kuzmitch?" cried Mitya
effusively.

"Don't mention it," said Samsonov, inclining his head.

"But you don't know, you've saved me. Oh, it was a true
presentiment brought me to you… . So now to this priest!

"No need of thanks."

"I'll make haste and fly there. I'm afraid I've overtaxed your
strength. I shall never forget it. It's a Russian says that, Kuzma
Kuzmitch, a R-r-russian!"

"To be sure!" Mitya seized his hand to press it, but there was a
malignant gleam in the old man's eye. Mitya drew back his hand, but
at once blamed himself for his mistrustfulness. "It's because he's
tired," he thought.

"For her sake! For her sake, Kuzma Kuzmitch! You understand that
it's for her," he cried, his voice ringing through the room. He
bowed, turned sharply round, and with the same long stride walked
to the door without looking back. He was trembling with
delight.

"Everything was on the verge of ruin and my guardian angel saved
me," was the thought in his mind. And if such a business man as
Samsonov (a most worthy old man, and what dignity!) had suggested
this course, then… then success was assured. He would fly off
immediately. "I will be back before night, I shall be back at night
and the thing is done. Could the old man have been laughing at me?"
exclaimed Mitya, as he strode towards his lodging. He could, of
course, imagine nothing but that the advice was practical "from
such a business man" with an understanding of the business, with an
understanding of this Lyagavy (curious surname!). Or- the old man
was laughing at him.

Alas! The second alternative was the correct one. Long
afterwards, when the catastrophe had happened, old Samsonov himself
confessed, laughing, that he had made a fool of the "captain." He
was a cold, spiteful and sarcastic man, liable to violent
antipathies. Whether it was the "captain's" excited face, or the
foolish conviction of the "rake and spendthrift," that he,
Samsonov, could be taken in by such a cock-and-bull story as his
scheme, or his jealousy of Grushenka, in whose name this
"scapegrace" had rushed in on him with such a tale to get money
which worked on the old man, I can't tell. But at the instant when
Mitya stood before him, feeling his legs grow weak under him, and
frantically exclaiming that he was ruined, at that moment the old
man looked at him with intense spite, and resolved to make a
laughing-stock of him. When Mitya had gone, Kuzma Kuzmitch, white
with rage, turned to his son and bade him see to it that that
beggar be never seen again, and never admitted even into the yard,
or else he'd-

He did not utter his threat. But even his son, who often saw him
enraged, trembled with fear. For a whole hour afterwards, the old
man was shaking with anger, and by evening he was worse, and sent
for the doctor.


