
They threw open the doors, opened a window and the chimney.
Mitya brought a pail of water from the passage. First he wetted his
own head, then, finding a rag of some sort, dipped it into the
water, and put it on Lyagavy's head. The forester still treated the
matter contemptuously, and when he opened the window said
grumpily:

"It'll be all right, now."

He went back to sleep, leaving Mitya a lighted lantern. Mitya
fussed about the drunken peasant for half an hour, wetting his
head, and gravely resolved not to sleep all night. But he was so
worn out that when he sat down for a moment to take breath, he
closed his eyes, unconsciously stretched himself full length on the
bench and slept like the dead.

It was dreadfully late when he waked. It was somewhere about
nine o'clock. The sun was shining brightly in the two little
windows of the hut. The curly-headed peasant was sitting on the
bench and had his coat on. He had another samovar and another
bottle in front of him. Yesterday's bottle had already been
finished, and the new one was more than half empty. Mitya jumped up
and saw at once that the cursed peasant was drunk again, hopelessly
and incurably. He stared at him for a moment with wide opened eyes.
The peasant was silently and slyly watching him, with insulting
composure, and even a sort of contemptuous condescension, so Mitya
fancied. He rushed up to him.

"Excuse me, you see… I… you've most likely heard from the
forester here in the hut. I'm Lieutenant Dmitri Karamazov, the son
of the old Karamazov whose copse you are buying."

"That's a lie!" said the peasant, calmly and confidently.

"A lie? You know Fyodor Pavlovitch?"

"I don't know any of your Fyodor Pavlovitches," said the
peasant, speaking thickly.

"You're bargaining with him for the copse, for the copse. Do
wake up, and collect yourself. Father Pavel of Ilyinskoe brought me
here. You wrote to Samsonov, and he has sent me to you," Mitya
gasped breathlessly.

"You're lying!" Lyagavy blurted out again. Mitya's legs went
cold.

