"For mercy's sake! It isn't a joke! You're drunk, perhaps. Yet
you can speak and understand… or else… I understand nothing!"

"You're a painter!"

"For mercy's sake! I'm Karamazov, Dmitri Karamazov. I have an
offer to make you, an advantageous offer… very advantageous offer,
concerning the copse!"

The peasant stroked his beard importantly.

"No, you've contracted for the job and turned out a scamp.
You're a scoundrel!"

"I assure you you're mistaken," cried Mitya, wringing his hands
in despair. The peasant still stroked his beard, and suddenly
screwed up his eyes cunningly.

"No, you show me this: you tell me the law that allows roguery.
D'you hear? You're a scoundrel! Do you understand that?"

Mitya stepped back gloomily, and suddenly "something seemed to
hit him on the head," as he said afterwards. In an instant a light
seemed to dawn in his mind, "a light was kindled and I grasped it
all." He stood, stupefied, wondering how he, after all a man of
intelligence, could have yielded to such folly, have been led into
such an adventure, and have kept it up for almost twenty-four
hours, fussing round this Lyagavy, wetting his head.

"Why, the man's drunk, dead drunk, and he'll go on drinking now
for a week; what's the use of waiting here? And what if Samsonov
sent me here on purpose? What if she-&#160;? Oh God, what have I
done?"

The peasant sat watching him and grinning. Another time Mitya
might have killed the fool in a fury, but now he felt as weak as a
child. He went quietly to the bench, took up his overcoat, put it
on without a word, and went out of the hut. He did not find the
forester in the next room; there was no one there. He took fifty
copecks in small change out of his pocket and put them on the table
for his night's lodging, the candle, and the trouble he had given.
Coming out of the hut he saw nothing but forest all round. He
walked at hazard, not knowing which way to turn out of the hut, to
the right or to the left. Hurrying there the evening before with
the priest, he had not noticed the road. He had no revengeful
feeling for anybody, even for Samsonov, in his heart. He strode
along a narrow forest path, aimless, dazed, without heeding where
he was going. A child could have knocked him down, so weak was he
in body and soul. He got out of the forest somehow, however, and a
vista of fields, bare after the harvest, stretched as far as the
eye could see.

"What despair! What death all round!" he repeated, striding on
and on.
