


Chapter

3
Gold Mines


THIS was the visit of Mitya of which Grushenka had spoken to
Rakitin with such horror. She was just then expecting the
"message," and was much relieved that Mitya had not been to see her
that day or the day before. She hoped that "please God he won't
come till I'm gone away," and he suddenly burst in on her. The rest
we know already. To get him off her hands she suggested at once
that he should walk with her to Samsonov's, where she said she
absolutely must go "to settle his accounts," and when Mitya
accompanied her at once, she said good-bye to him at the gate,
making him promise to come at twelve o'clock to take her home
again. Mitya, too, was delighted at this arrangement. If she was
sitting at Samsonov's she could not be going to Fyodor
Pavlovitch's, "if only she's not lying," he added at once. But he
thought she was not lying from what he saw.

He was that sort of jealous man who, in the absence of the
beloved woman, at once invents all sorts of awful fancies of what
may be happening to her, and how she may be betraying him, but,
when shaken, heartbroken, convinced of her faithlessness, he runs
back to her, at the first glance at her face, her gay, laughing,
affectionate face, he revives at once, lays aside all suspicion and
with joyful shame abuses himself for his jealousy.

After leaving Grushenka at the gate he rushed home. Oh, he had
so much still to do that day! But a load had been lifted from his
heart, anyway.

"Now I must only make haste and find out from Smerdyakov whether
anything happened there last night, whether, by any chance, she
went to Fyodor Pavlovitch; ough!" floated through his mind.

Before he had time to reach his lodging, jealousy had surged up
again in his restless heart.

Jealousy! "Othello was not jealous, he was trustful," observed
Pushkin. And that remark alone is enough to show the deep insight
of our great poet. Othello's soul was shattered and his whole
outlook clouded simply because his ideal was destroyed. But Othello
did not begin hiding, spying, peeping. He was trustful, on the
contrary. He had to be led up, pushed on, excited with great
difficulty before he could entertain the idea of deceit. The truly
jealous man is not like that. It is impossible to picture to
oneself the shame and moral degradation to which the jealous man
can descend without a qualm of conscience. And yet it's not as
though the jealous were all vulgar and base souls. On the contrary,
a man of lofty feelings, whose love is pure and full of
self-sacrifice, may yet hide under tables, bribe the vilest people,
and be familiar with the lowest ignominy of spying and
eavesdropping.

Othello was incapable of making up his mind to faithlessness-
not incapable of forgiving it, but of making up his mind to it-
though his soul was as innocent and free from malice as a babe's.
It is not so with the really jealous man. It is hard to imagine
what some jealous men can make up their mind to and overlook, and
what they can forgive! The jealous are the readiest of all to
forgive, and all women know it. The jealous man can forgive
extraordinarily quickly (though, of course, after a violent scene),
and he is able to forgive infidelity almost conclusively proved,
the very kisses and embraces he has seen, if only he can somehow be
convinced that it has all been "for the last time," and that his
rival will vanish from that day forward, will depart to the ends of
the earth, or that he himself will carry her away somewhere, where
that dreaded rival will not get near her. Of course the
reconciliation is only for an hour. For, even if the rival did
disappear next day, he would invent another one and would be
jealous of him. And one might wonder what there was in a love that
had to be so watched over, what a love could be worth that needed
such strenuous guarding. But that the jealous will never
understand. And yet among them are men of noble hearts. It is
remarkable, too, that those very men of noble hearts, standing
hidden in some cupboard, listening and spying, never feel the
stings of conscience at that moment, anyway, though they understand
clearly enough with their "noble hearts" the shameful depths to
which they have voluntarily sunk.
