
"But here is one from afar." He pointed to a woman by no means
old but very thin and wasted, with a face not merely sunburnt but
almost blackened by exposure. She was kneeling and gazing with a
fixed stare at the elder; there was something almost frenzied in
her eyes.

"From afar off, Father, from afar off! From two hundred miles
from here. From afar off, Father, from afar off!" the woman began
in a sing-song voice as though she were chanting a dirge, swaying
her head from side to side with her cheek resting in her hand.

There is silent and long-suffering sorrow to be met with among
the peasantry. It withdraws into itself and is still. But there is
a grief that breaks out, and from that minute it bursts into tears
and finds vent in wailing. This is particularly common with women.
But it is no lighter a grief than the silent. Lamentations comfort
only by lacerating the heart still more. Such grief does not desire
consolation. It feeds on the sense of its hopelessness.
Lamentations spring only from the constant craving to re-open the
wound.

"You are of the tradesman class?" said Father Zossima, looking
curiously at her.

"Townfolk we are, Father, townfolk. Yet we are peasants though
we live in the town. I have come to see you, O Father! We heard of
you, Father, we heard of you. I have buried my little son, and I
have come on a pilgrimage. I have been in three monasteries, but
they told me, 'Go, Nastasya, go to them'- that is to you. I have
come; I was yesterday at the service, and to-day I have come to
you."

"What are you weeping for?"

"It's my little son I'm grieving for, Father. he was three years
old- three years all but three months. For my little boy, Father,
I'm in anguish, for my little boy. He was the last one left. We had
four, my Nikita and I, and now we've no children, our dear ones
have all gone I buried the first three without grieving overmuch,
and now I have buried the last I can't forget him. He seems always
standing before me. He never leaves me. He has withered my heart. I
look at his little clothes, his little shirt, his little boots, and
I wail. I lay out all that is left of him, all his little things. I
look at them and wail. I say to Nikita, my husband, 'let me go on a
pilgrimage, master.' He is a driver. We're not poor people, Father,
not poor; he drives our own horse. It's all our own, the horse and
the carriage. And what good is it all to us now? My Nikita has
begun drinking while I am away. He's sure to. It used to be so
before. As soon as I turn my back he gives way to it. But now I
don't think about him. It's three months since I left home. I've
forgotten him. I've forgotten everything. I don't want to remember.
And what would our life be now together? I've done with him, I've
done. I've done with them all. I don't care to look upon my house
and my goods. I don't care to see anything at all!"

"Listen, mother," said the elder. "Once in olden times a holy
saint saw in the Temple a mother like you weeping for her little
one, her only one, whom God had taken. 'Knowest thou not,' said the
saint to her, 'how bold these little ones are before the throne of
God? Verily there are none bolder than they in the Kingdom of
Heaven. "Thou didst give us life, O Lord," they say, "and scarcely
had we looked upon it when Thou didst take it back again." And so
boldly they ask and ask again that God gives them at once the rank
of angels. Therefore,' said the saint, 'thou, too, O Mother,
rejoice and weep not, for thy little son is with the Lord in the
fellowship of the angels.' That's what the saint said to the
weeping mother of old. He was a great saint and he could not have
spoken falsely. Therefore you too, mother, know that your little
one is surely before the throne of God, is rejoicing and happy, and
praying to God for you, and therefore weep, but rejoice."

The woman listened to him, looking down with her cheek in her
hand. She sighed deeply.

"My Nikita tried to comfort me with the same words as you.
'Foolish one,' he said, 'why weep? Our son is no doubt singing with
the angels before God.' He says that to me, but he weeps himself. I
see that he cries like me. 'I know, Nikita,' said I. 'Where could
he be if not with the Lord God? Only, here with us now he is not as
he used to sit beside us before.' And if only I could look upon him
one little time, if only I could peep at him one little time,
without going up to him, without speaking, if I could be hidden in
a corner and only see him for one little minute, hear him playing
in the yard, calling in his little voice, 'Mammy, where are you?'
If only I could hear him pattering with his little feet about the
room just once, only once; for so often, so often I remember how he
used to run to me and shout and laugh, if only I could hear his
little feet I should know him! But he's gone, Father, he's gone,
and I shall never hear him again. Here's his little sash, but him I
shall never see or hear now."

