She drew out of her bosom her boy's little embroidered sash, and
as soon as she looked at it she began shaking with sobs, hiding her
eyes with her fingers through which the tears flowed in a sudden
stream.

"It is Rachel of old," said the elder, "weeping for her
children, and will not be comforted because they are not. Such is
the lot set on earth for you mothers. Be not comforted. Consolation
is not what you need. Weep and be not consoled, but weep. Only
every time that you weep be sure to remember that your little son
is one of the angels of God, that he looks down from there at you
and sees you, and rejoices at your tears, and points at them to the
Lord God; and a long while yet will you keep that great mother's
grief. But it will turn in the end into quiet joy, and your bitter
tears will be only tears of tender sorrow that purifies the heart
and delivers it from sin. And I shall pray for the peace of your
child's soul. What was his name?"

"Alexey, Father."

"A sweet name. After Alexey, the man of God?"

"Yes, Father."

"What a saint he was! I will remember him, mother, and your
grief in my prayers, and I will pray for your husband's health. It
is a sin for you to leave him. Your little one will see from heaven
that you have forsaken his father, and will weep over you. Why do
you trouble his happiness? He is living, for the soul lives for
ever, and though he is not in the house he is near you, unseen. How
can he go into the house when you say that the house is hateful to
you? To whom is he to go if he find you not together, his father
and mother? He comes to you in dreams now, and you grieve. But then
he will send you gentle dreams. Go to your husband, mother; go this
very day."

"I will go, Father, at your word. I will go. You've gone
straight to my heart. My Nikita, my Nikita, you are waiting for
me," the woman began in a sing-song voice; but the elder had
already turned away to a very old woman, dressed like a dweller in
the town, not like a pilgrim. Her eyes showed that she had come
with an object, and in order to say something. She said she was the
widow of a non-commissioned officer, and lived close by in the
town. Her son Vasenka was in the commissariat service, and had gone
to Irkutsk in Siberia. He had written twice from there, but now a
year had passed since he had written. She did inquire about him,
but she did not know the proper place to inquire.

"Only the other day Stepanida Ilyinishna- she's a rich
merchant's wife- said to me, 'You go, Prohorovna, and put your
son's name down for prayer in the church, and pray for the peace of
his soul as though he were dead. His soul will be troubled,' she
said, 'and he will write you a letter.' And Stepanida Ilyinishna
told me it was a certain thing which had been many times tried.
Only I am in doubt… . Oh, you light of ours! is it true or false,
and would it be right?"

"Don't think of it. It's shameful to ask the question. How is it
possible to pray for the peace of a living soul? And his own mother
too! It's a great sin, akin to sorcery. Only for your ignorance it
is forgiven you. Better pray to the Queen of Heaven, our swift
defence and help, for his good health, and that she may forgive you
for your error. And another thing I will tell you, Prohorovna.
Either he will soon come back to you, your son, or he will be sure
to send a letter. Go, and henceforward be in peace. Your son is
alive, I tell you."

"Dear Father, God reward you, our benefactor, who prays for all
of us and for our sins!"

But the elder had already noticed in the crowd two glowing eyes
fixed upon him. An exhausted, consumptive-looking, though young
peasant woman was gazing at him in silence. Her eyes besought him,
but she seemed afraid to approach.
