
"A wash-stand? That's all right… but where am I to put
this?"

With the strangest perplexity he indicated his bundle of
hundred-rouble notes, looking inquiringly at Pyotr Ilyitch as
though it were for him to decide what he, Mitya, was to do with his
own money.

"In your pocket, or on the table here. They won't be lost."

"In my pocket? Yes, in my pocket. All right… . But, I say,
that's all nonsense," he cried, as though suddenly coming out of
his absorption. "Look here, let's first settle that business of the
pistols. Give them back to me. Here's your money… because I am in
great need of them… and I haven't a minute, a minute to spare."

And taking the topmost note from the bundle he held it out to
Pyotr Ilyitch.

"But I shan't have change enough. Haven't you less?"

"No," said Mitya, looking again at the bundle, and as though not
trusting his own words he turned over two or three of the topmost
ones.

"No, they're all alike," he added, and again he looked
inquiringly at Pyotr Ilyitch.

"How have you grown so rich?" the latter asked. "Wait, I'll send
my boy to Plotnikov's, they close late- to see if they won't change
it. Here, Misha!" he called into the passage.

"To Plotnikov's shop- first-rate!" cried Mitya, as though struck
by an idea. "Misha," he turned to the boy as he came in, "look
here, run to Plotnikov's and tell them that Dmitri Fyodorovitch
sends his greetings, and will be there directly… . But listen,
listen, tell them to have champagne, three dozen bottles, ready
before I come, and packed as it was to take to Mokroe. I took four
dozen with me then," he added (suddenly addressing Pyotr Ilyitch);
"they know all about it, don't you trouble, Misha," he turned again
to the boy. "Stay, listen; tell them to put in cheese, Strasburg
pies, smoked fish, ham, caviare, and everything, everything they've
got, up to a hundred roubles, or a hundred and twenty as before… .
But wait: don't let them forget dessert, sweets, pears,
watermelons, two or three or four- no, one melon's enough, and
chocolate, candy, toffee, fondants; in fact, everything I took to
Mokroe before, three hundred roubles' worth with the champagne… let
it be just the same again. And remember, Misha, if you are called
Misha- His name is Misha, isn't it?" He turned to Pyotr Ilyitch
again.

