
They were awaiting Mitya with impatience in the shop. They had
vivid recollections of how he had bought, three or four weeks ago,
wine and goods of all sorts to the value of several hundred
roubles, paid for in cash (they would never have let him have
anything on credit, of course). They remembered that then, as now,
he had had a bundle of hundred-rouble notes in his hand, and had
scattered them at random, without bargaining, without reflecting,
or caring to reflect what use so much wine and provisions would be
to him. The story was told all over the town that, driving off then
with Grushenka to Mokroe, he had "spent three thousand in one night
and the following day, and had come back from the spree without a
penny." He had picked up a whole troop of gypsies (encamped in our
neighbourhood at the time), who for two days got money without
stint out of him while he was drunk, and drank expensive wine
without stint. People used to tell, laughing at Mitya, how he had
given champagne to grimy-handed peasants, and feasted the village
women and girls on sweets and Strasburg pies. Though to laugh at
Mitya to his face was rather a risky proceeding, there was much
laughter behind his back, especially in the tavern, at his own
ingenuous public avowal that all he had got out of Grushenka by
this "escapade" was "permission to kiss her foot, and that was the
utmost she had allowed him."

By the time Mitya and Pyotr Ilyitch reached the shop, they found
a cart with three horses harnessed abreast with bells, and with
Andrey, the driver, ready waiting for Mitya at the entrance. In the
shop they had almost entirely finished packing one box of
provisions, and were only waiting for Mitya's arrival to nail it
down and put it in the cart. Pyotr Ilyitch was astounded.

"Where did this cart come from in such a hurry?" he asked
Mitya.

"I met Andrey as I ran to you, and told him to drive straight
here to the shop. There's no time to lose. Last time I drove with
Timofey, but Timofey now has gone on before me with the witch.
Shall we be very late, Andrey?"

"They'll only get there an hour at most before us, not even that
maybe. I got Timofey ready to start. I know how he'll go. Their
pace won't be ours, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. How could it be? They
won't get there an hour earlier!" Andrey, a lanky, red-haired,
middle-aged driver, wearing a full-skirted coat, and with a kaftan
on his arm, replied warmly.

"Fifty roubles for vodka if we're only an hour behind them."

"I warrant the time, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. Ech, they won't be
half an hour before us, let alone an hour."

Though Mitya bustled about seeing after things, he gave his
orders strangely, as it were, disconnectedly, and inconsecutively.
He began a sentence and forgot the end of it. Pyotr Ilyitch found
himself obliged to come to the rescue.

"Four hundred roubles' worth, not less than four hundred
roubles' worth, just as it was then," commanded Mitya. "Four dozen
champagne, not a bottle less."

"What do you want with so much? What's it for? Stay!" cried
Pyotr Ilyitch. "What's this box? What's in it? Surely there isn't
four hundred roubles' worth here?"

