The officious shopmen began explaining with oily politeness that
the first box contained only half a dozen bottles of champagne, and
only "the most indispensable articles," such as savouries, sweets,
toffee, etc. But the main part of the goods ordered would be packed
and sent off, as on the previous occasion, in a special cart also
with three horses travelling at full speed, so that it would arrive
not more than an hour later than Dmitri Fyodorovitch himself.

"Not more than an hour! Not more than an hour! And put in more
toffee and fondants. The girls there are so fond of it," Mitya
insisted hotly.

"The fondants are all right. But what do you want with four
dozen of champagne? One would be enough," said Pyotr Ilyitch,
almost angry. He began bargaining, asking for a bill of the goods,
and refused to be satisfied. But he only succeeded in saving a
hundred roubles. In the end it was agreed that only three hundred
roubles' worth should be sent.

"Well, you may go to the devil!" cried Pyotr Ilyitch, on second
thoughts. "What's it to do with me? Throw away your money, since
it's cost you nothing."

"This way, my economist, this way, don't be angry." Mitya drew
him into a room at the back of the shop. "They'll give us a bottle
here directly. We'll taste it. Ech, Pyotr Ilyitch, come along with
me, for you're a nice fellow, the sort I like."

Mitya sat down on a wicker chair, before a little table, covered
with a dirty dinner-napkin. Pyotr Ilyitch sat down opposite, and
the champagne soon appeared, and oysters were suggested to the
gentlemen. "First-class oysters, the last lot in."

"Hang the oysters. I don't eat them. And we don't need
anything," cried Pyotr Ilyitch, almost angrily.

"There's no time for oysters," said Mitya. "And I'm not hungry.
Do you know, friend," he said suddenly, with feeling, "I never have
liked all this disorder."

"Who does like it? Three dozen of champagne for peasants, upon
my word, that's enough to make anyone angry!"

"That's not what I mean. I'm talking of a higher order. There's
no order in me, no higher order. But… that's all over. There's no
need to grieve about it. It's too late, damn it! My whole life has
been disorder, and one must set it in order. Is that a pun,
eh?"

"You're raving, not making puns!
