As he said this, Mitya suddenly got up.

"Dmitri Fyodorovitch, won't you come now?" called Andrey from
the door of the shop.

"Are you ready? We'll come!" Mitya started. "A few more last
words and- Andrey, a glass of vodka at starting. Give him some
brandy as well! That box" (the one with the pistols) "put under my
seat. Good-bye, Pyotr Ilyitch, don't remember evil against me."

"But you're coming back to-morrow?"

"Will you settle the little bill now?" cried the clerk,
springing forward.

"Oh yes, the bill. Of course."

He pulled the bundle of notes out of his pocket again, picked
out three hundred roubles, threw them on the counter, and ran
hurriedly out of the shop. Everyone followed him out, bowing and
wishing him good luck. Andrey, coughing from the brandy he had just
swallowed, jumped up on the box. But Mitya was only just taking his
seat when suddenly to his surprise he saw Fenya before him. She ran
up panting, clasped her hands before him with a cry, and plumped
down at his feet.

"Dmitri Fyodorovitch, dear good Dmitri Fyodorovitch, don't harm
my mistress. And it was I told you all about it… . And don't murder
him, he came first, he's hers! He'll marry Agrafena Alexandrovna
now. That's why he's come back from Siberia. Dmitri Fyodorovitch,
dear, don't take a fellow creature's life!"

"Tut-tut-tut! That's it, is it? So you're off there to make
trouble!" muttered Pyotr Ilyitch. "Now, it's all clear, as clear as
daylight. Dmitri Fyodorovitch, give me your pistols at once if you
mean to behave like a man," he shouted aloud to Mitya. "Do you
hear, Dmitri?"

"The pistols? Wait a bit, brother, I'll throw them into the pool
on the road," answered Mitya. "Fenya, get up, don't kneel to me.
Mitya won't hurt anyone, the silly fool won't hurt anyone again.
But I say, Fenya," he shouted, after having taken his seat. "I hurt
you just now, so forgive me and have pity on me, forgive a
scoundrel… . But it doesn't matter if you don't. It's all the same
now. Now then, Andrey, look alive, fly along full speed!"

Andrey whipped up the horses, and the bells began ringing.
