
"No, in the Province of Smolensk. Only, a Uhlan had brought her
to Russia before that, my future wife, with her mamma and her aunt,
and another female relation with a grown-up son. He brought her
straight from Poland and gave her up to me. He was a lieutenant in
our regiment, a very nice young man. At first he meant to marry her
himself. But he didn't marry her, because she turned out to be
lame."

"So you married a lame woman?" cried Kalganov.

"Yes. They both deceived me a little bit at the time, and
concealed it. I thought she was hopping; she kept hopping… . I
thought it was for fun."

"So pleased she was going to marry you!" yelled Kalganov, in a
ringing, childish voice.

"Yes, so pleased. But it turned out to be quite a different
cause. Afterwards, when we were married, after the wedding, that
very evening, she confessed, and very touchingly asked forgiveness.
'I once jumped over a puddle when I was a child,' she said, 'and
injured my leg.' He he!"

Kalgonov went off into the most childish laughter, almost
falling on the sofa. Grushenka, too, laughed. Mitya was at the
pinnacle of happiness.

"Do you know, that's the truth, he's not lying now," exclaimed
Kalganov, turning to Mitya; "and do you know, he's been married
twice; it's his first wife he's talking about. But his second wife,
do you know, ran away, and is alive now."

"Is it possible?" said Mitya, turning quickly to Maximov with an
expression of the utmost astonishment.

"Yes. She did run away. I've had that unpleasant experience,"
Maximov modestly assented, "with a monsieur. And what was worse,
she'd had all my little property transferred to her beforehand.
'You're an educated man,' she said to me. 'You can always get your
living.' She settled my business with that. A venerable bishop once
said to me: 'One of your wives was lame, but the other was too
light-footed.' He he!

"Listen, listen!" cried Kalganov, bubbling over, "if he's
telling lies- and he often is- he's only doing it to amuse us all.
There's no harm in that, is there? You know, I sometimes like him.
He's awfully low, but it's natural to him, eh? Don't you think so?
Some people are low from self-interest, but he's simply so, from
nature. Only fancy, he claims (he was arguing about it all the way
yesterday) that Gogol wrote Dead Souls about him. Do you remember,
there's a landowner called Maximov in it, whom Nozdryov thrashed.
He was charged, do you remember, 'for inflicting bodily injury with
rods on the landowner Maximov in a drunken condition.' Would you
believe it, he claims that he was that Maximov and that he was
beaten! Now can it be so? Tchitchikov made his journey, at the very
latest, at the beginning of the twenties, so that the dates don't
fit. He couldn't have been thrashed then, he couldn't, could
he?"

