"Nothing… . I left a man ill there. I'd give ten years of my
life for him to get well, to know he was all right!"

"Well, never mind him, if he's ill. So you meant to shoot
yourself to-morrow! What a silly boy! What for? I like such
reckless fellows as you," she lisped, with a rather halting tongue.
"So you would go any length for me, eh? Did you really mean to
shoot yourself to-morrow, you stupid? No, wait a little. To-morrow
I may have something to say to you… . I won't say it to-day, but
to-morrow. You'd like it to be to-day? No, I don't want to to-day.
Come, go along now, go and amuse yourself."

Once, however, she called him, as it were, puzzled and
uneasy.

"Why are you sad? I see you're sad… . Yes, I see it," she added,
looking intently into his eyes. "Though you keep kissing the
peasants and shouting, I see something. No, be merry. I'm merry;
you be merry, too… . I love somebody here. Guess who it is. Ah,
look, my boy has fallen asleep, poor dear, he's drunk."

She meant Kalganov. He was, in fact, drunk, and had dropped
asleep for a moment, sitting on the sofa. But he was not merely
drowsy from drink; he felt suddenly dejected, or, as he said,
"bored." He was intensely depressed by the girls' songs, which, as
the drinking went on, gradually became coarse and more reckless.
And the dances were as bad. Two girls dressed up as bears, and a
lively girl, called Stepanida, with a stick in her hand, acted the
part of keeper, and began to "show them."

"Look alive, Marya, or you'll get the stick!

The bears rolled on the ground at last in the most unseemly
fashion, amid roars of laughter from the closely-packed crowd of
men and women.

"Well, let them! Let them!" said Grushenka sententiously, with
an ecstatic expression on her face. "When they do get a day to
enjoy themselves; why shouldn't folks be happy?"

Kalgonov looked as though he had been besmirched with dirt.

"It's swinish, all this peasant foolery," he murmured, moving
away; "it's the game they play when it's light all night in
summer."

He particularly disliked one "new" song to a jaunty dance-tune.
It described how a gentleman came and tried his luck with the
girls, to see whether they would love him:
