
"All right, all right… "

Mitya's head was burning. He went outside to the wooden balcony
which ran round the whole building on the inner side, overlooking
the courtyard. The fresh air revived him. He stood alone in a dark
corner, and suddenly clutched his head in both hands. His scattered
thoughts came together; his sensations blended into a whole and
threw a sudden light into his mind. A fearful and terrible light!
"If I'm to shoot myself, why not now?" passed through his mind.
"Why not go for the pistols, bring them here, and here, in this
dark dirty corner, make an end?" Almost a minute he undecided. A
few hours earlier, when he had been dashing here, he was pursued by
disgrace, by the theft he had committed, and that blood, that
blood!… But yet it was easier for him then. Then everything was
over: he had lost her, given her up. She was gone, for him- oh,
then his death sentence had been easier for him; at least it had
seemed necessary, inevitable, for what had he to stay on earth
for?

But now? Was it the same as then? Now one phantom, one terror at
least was at an end: that first, rightful lover, that fateful
figure had vanished, leaving no trace. The terrible phantom had
turned into something so small, so comic; it had been carried into
the bedroom and locked in. It would never return. She was ashamed,
and from her eyes he could see now whom she loved. Now he had
everything to make life happy… but he could not go on living, he
could not; oh, damnation! "O God! restore to life the man I knocked
down at the fence! Let this fearful cup pass from me! Lord, thou
hast wrought miracles for such sinners as me! But what, what if the
old man's alive? Oh, then the shame of the other disgrace I would
wipe away. I would restore the stolen money. I'd give it back; I'd
get it somehow… . No trace of that shame will remain except in my
heart for ever! But no, no; oh, impossible cowardly dreams! Oh,
damnation!"

Yet there was a ray of light and hope in his darkness. He jumped
up and ran back to the room- to her, to her, his queen for ever!
Was not one moment of her love worth all the rest of life, even in
the agonies of disgrace? This wild question clutched at his heart.
"To her, to her alone, to see her, to hear her, to think of
nothing, to forget everything, if only for that night, for an hour,
for a moment!" Just as he turned from the balcony into the passage,
he came upon the landlord, Trifon Borissovitch. He thought he
looked gloomy and worried, and fancied he had come to find him.

"What is it, Trifon Borissovitch? Are you looking for me?"

"No, sir," The landlord seemed disconcerted. "Why should I be
looking for you? Where have you been?"

"Why do you look so glum? You're not angry, are you? Wait a bit,
you shall soon get to bed… . What's the time?"

"It'll be three o'clock. Past three, it must be."

"We'll leave off soon. We'll leave off."

"Don't mention it; it doesn't matter. Keep it up as long as you
like… "

