"What's the matter with him?" Mitya wondered for an instant, and
he ran back to the room where the girls were dancing. But she was
not there. She was not in the blue room either; there was no one
but Kalgonov asleep on the sofa. Mitya peeped behind the curtain-
she was there. She was sitting in the corner, on a trunk. Bent
forward, with her head and arms on the bed close by, she was crying
bitterly, doing her utmost to stifle her sobs that she might not be
heard. Seeing Mitya, she beckoned him to her, and when he ran to
her, she grasped his hand tightly.

"Mitya, Mitya, I loved him, you know. How I have loved him these
five years, all that time! Did I love him or only my own anger? No,
him, him! It's a lie that it was my anger I loved and not him.
Mitya, I was only seventeen then; he was so kind to me, so merry;
he used to sing to me… . Or so it seemed to a silly girl like me… .
And now, O Lord, it's not the same man. Even his face is not the
same; he's different altogether. I shouldn't have known him. I
drove here with Timofey, and all the way I was thinking how I
should meet him, what I should say to him, how we should look at
one another. My soul was faint, and all of a sudden it was just as
though he had emptied a pail of dirty water over me. He talked to
me like a schoolmaster, all so grave and learned; he met me so
solemnly that I was struck dumb. I couldn't get a word in. At first
I thought he was ashamed to talk before his great big Pole. I sat
staring at him and wondering why I couldn't say a word to him now.
It must have been his wife that ruined him; you know he threw me up
to get married. She must have changed him like that. Mitya, how
shameful it is! Oh, Mitya, I'm ashamed, I'm ashamed for all my
life. Curse it, curse it, curse those five years!"

And again she burst into tears, but clung tight to Mitya's hand
and did not let it go.

"Mitya, darling, stay, don't go away. I want to say one word to
you," she whispered, and suddenly raised her face to him. "Listen,
tell me who it is I love? I love one man here. Who is that man?
That's what you must tell me."

A smile lighted up her face that was swollen with weeping, and
her eyes shone in the half darkness.

"A falcon flew in, and my heart sank. "Fool! that's the man you
love!' That was what my heart whispered to me at once. You came in
and all grew bright. What's he afraid of? I wondered. For you were
frightened; you couldn't speak. It's not them he's afraid of- could
you be frightened of anyone? It's me he's afraid of, I thought,
only me. So Fenya told you, you little stupid, how I called to
Alyosha out of the window that I'd loved Mityenka for one hour, and
that I was going now to love… another. Mitya, Mitya, how could I be
such a fool as to think I could love anyone after you? Do you
forgive me, Mitya? Do you forgive me or not? Do you love me? Do you
love me?" She jumped up and held him with both hands on his
shoulders. Mitya, dumb with rapture, gazed into her eyes, at her
face, at her smile, and suddenly clasped her tightly his arms and
kissed her passionately.

"You will forgive me for having tormented you? It was through
spite I tormented you all. It was for spite I drove the old man out
of his mind… . Do you remember how you drank at my house one day
and broke the wine-glass? I remembered that and I broke a glass
to-day and drank 'to my vile heart.' Mitya, my falcon, why don't
you kiss me? He kissed me once, and now he draws back and looks and
listens. Why listen to me? Kiss me, kiss me hard, that's right. if
you love, well, then, love! I'll be your slave now, your slave for
the rest of my life. It's sweet to be a slave. Kiss me! Beat me,
ill-treat me, do what you will with me… . And I do deserve to
suffer. Stay, wait, afterwards, I won't have that… " she suddenly
thrust him away. "Go along, Mitya, I'll come and have some wine, I
want to be drunk, I'm going to get drunk and dance; I must, I
must!" She tore herself away from him and disappeared behind the
curtain. Mitya followed like a drunken man.

"Yes, come what may- whatever may happen now, for one minute I'd
give the whole world," he thought. Grushenka did, in fact, toss off
a whole glass of champagne at one gulp, and became at once very
tipsy. She sat down in the same chair as before, with a blissful
smile on her face. Her cheeks were glowing, her lips were burning,
her flashing eyes were moist; there was passionate appeal in her
eyes. Even Kalgonov felt a stir at the heart and went up to
her.

"Did you feel how I kissed you when you were asleep just now?"
she said thickly. "I'm drunk now, that's what it is… . And aren't
you drunk? And why isn't Mitya drinking? Why don't you drink,
Mitya? I'm drunk, and you don't drink… "

"I am drunk! I'm drunk as it is… drunk with you… and now I'll be
drunk with wine, too."

He drank off another glass, and- he thought it strange himself-
that glass made him completely drunk. He was suddenly drunk,
although till that moment he had been quite sober, he remembered
that. From that moment everything whirled about him, as though he
were delirious. He walked, laughed, talked to everybody, without
knowing what he was doing. Only one persistent burning sensation
made itself felt continually, "like a red-hot coal in his heart,"
he said afterwards. He went up to her, sat beside her, gazed at
her, listened to her… . She became very talkative, kept calling
everyone to her, and beckoned to different girls out of the chorus.
When the girl came up, she either kissed her, or made the sign of
the cross over her. In another minute she might have cried. She was
greatly amused by the "little old man," as she called Maximov. He
ran up every minute to kiss her hands, each little finger," and
finally he danced another dance to an old song, which he sang
himself. He danced with special vigour to the refrain:
