"Here's the note!" she turned quickly to Pyotr Ilyitch. "Go,
save him. It's a noble deed on your part!"

And she made the sign of the cross three times over him. She ran
out to accompany him to the passage.

"How grateful I am to you! You can't think how grateful I am to
you for having come to me, first. How is it I haven't met you
before? I shall feel flattered at seeing you at my house in the
future. How delightful it is that you are living here!… Such
precision! Such practical ability!… They must appreciate you, they
must understand you. If there's anything I can do, believe me… oh,
I love young people! I'm in love with young people! The younger
generation are the one prop of our suffering country. Her one hope…
. Oh, go, go!… "

But Pyotr Ilyitch had already run away or she would not have let
him go so soon. Yet Madame Hohlakov had made a rather agreeable
impression on him, which had somewhat softened his anxiety at being
drawn into such an unpleasant affair. Tastes differ, as we all
know. "She's by no means so elderly," he thought, feeling pleased,
"on the contrary I should have taken her for her daughter."

As for Madame Hohlakov, she was simply enchanted by the young
man. "Such sence such exactness! in so young a man! in our day! and
all that with such manners and appearance! People say the young
people of to-day are no good for anything, but here's an example!"
etc. So she simply forgot this "dreadful affair," and it was only
as she was getting into bed, that, suddenly recalling "how near
death she had been," she exclaimed: "Ah, it is awful, awful!"

But she fell at once into a sound, sweet sleep.

I would not, however, have dwelt on such trivial and irrelevant
details, if this eccentric meeting of the young official with the
by no means elderly widow had not subsequently turned out to be the
foundation of the whole career of that practical and precise young
man. His story is remembered to this day with amazement in our
town, and I shall perhaps have something to say about it, when I
have finished my long history of the Brothers Karamazov.




