
"I suffer… from lack of faith."

"Lack of faith in God?"

"Oh, no, no! I dare not even think of that. But the future life-
it is such an enigma And no one, no one can solve it. Listen! You
are a healer, you are deeply versed in the human soul, and of
course I dare not expect you to believe me entirely, but I assure
you on my word of honour that I am not speaking lightly now. The
thought of the life beyond the grave distracts me to anguish, to
terror. And I don't know to whom to appeal, and have not dared to
all my life. And now I am so bold as to ask you. Oh, God! What will
you think of me now?"

She clasped her hands.

"Don't distress yourself about my opinion of you," said the
elder. "I quite believe in the sincerity of your suffering."

"Oh, how thankful I am to you! You see, I shut my eyes and ask
myself if everyone has faith, where did it come from? And then they
do say that it all comes from terror at the menacing phenomena of
nature, and that none of it's real. And I say to myself, 'What if
I've been believing all my life, and when I come to die there's
nothing but the burdocks growing on my grave?' as I read in some
author. It's awful! How- how can I get back my faith? But I only
believed when I was a little child, mechanically, without thinking
of anything. How, how is one to prove it? have come now to lay my
soul before you and to ask you about it. If I let this chance slip,
no one all my life will answer me. How can I prove it? How can I
convince myself? Oh, how unhappy I am! I stand and look about me
and see that scarcely anyone else cares; no one troubles his head
about it, and I'm the only one who can't stand it. It's deadly-
deadly!"

"No doubt. But there's no proving it, though you can be
convinced of it."

"By the experience of active love. Strive to love your neighbour
actively and indefatigably. In as far as you advance in love you
will grow surer of the reality of God and of the immortality of
your soul. If you attain to perfect self-forgetfulness in the love
of your neighbour, then you will believe without doubt, and no
doubt can possibly enter your soul. This has been tried. This is
certain."

"In active love? There's another question and such a question!
You see, I so love humanity that- would you believe it?- I often
dream of forsaking all that I have, leaving Lise, and becoming a
sister of mercy. I close my eyes and think and dream, and at that
moment I feel full of strength to overcome all obstacles. No
wounds, no festering sores could at that moment frighten me. I
would bind them up and wash them with my own hands. I would nurse
the afflicted. I would be ready to kiss such wounds."

"It is much, and well that your mind is full of such dreams and
not others. Some time, unawares, you may do a good deed in
reality."

