"Yes, about money, too."

"There was a dispute about three thousand roubles, I think,
which you claimed as part of your inheritance?"

"Three thousand! More, more," cried Mitya hotly; "more than six
thousand, more than ten, perhaps. I told everyone so, shouted it at
them. But I made up my mind to let it go at three thousand. I was
desperately in need of that three thousand… so the bundle of notes
for three thousand that I knew he kept under his pillow, ready for
Grushenka, I considered as simply stolen from me. Yes, gentlemen, I
looked upon it as mine, as my own property… "

The prosecutor looked significantly at the investigating lawyer,
and had time to wink at him on the sly.

"We will return to that subject later," said the lawyer
promptly. "You will allow us to note that point and write it down;
that you looked upon that money as your own property?"

"Write it down, by all means. I know that's another fact that
tells against me, but I'm not afraid of facts and I tell them
against myself. Do you hear? Do you know, gentlemen, you take me
for a different sort of man from what I am," he added, suddenly
gloomy and dejected. "You have to deal with a man of honour, a man
of the highest honour; above all don't lose sight of it- a man
who's done a lot of nasty things, but has always been, and still
is, honourable at bottom, in his inner being. I don't know how to
express it. That's just what's made me wretched all my life, that I
yearned to be honourable, that I was, so to say, a martyr to a
sense of honour, seeking for it with a lantern, with the lantern of
Diogenes, and yet all my life I've been doing filthy things like
all of us, gentlemen… that is like me alone. That was a mistake,
like me alone, me alone!… Gentlemen, my head aches… " His brows
contracted with pain. "You see, gentlemen, I couldn't bear the look
of him, there was something in him ignoble, impudent, trampling on
everything sacred, something sneering and irreverent, loathsome,
loathsome. But now that he's dead, I feel differently."

"How do you mean?"

"I don't feel differently, but I wish I hadn't hated him
so."

"You feel penitent?"

"No, not penitent, don't write that. I'm not much good myself;
I'm not very beautiful, so I had no right to consider him
repulsive. That's what I mean. Write that down, if you like."

Saying this Mitya became very mournful. He had grown more and
more gloomy as the inquiry continued.
