"He is suspected, too."

Mitya fixed his eyes on the floor.

"Joking apart," he brought out gloomily. "Listen. From the very
beginning, almost from the moment when I ran out to you from behind
the curtain, I've had the thought of Smerdyakov in my mind. I've
been sitting here, shouting that I'm innocent and thinking all the
time 'Smerdyakov!' I can't get Smerdyakov out of my head. In fact,
I, too, thought of Smerdyakov just now; but only for a second.
Almost at once I thought, 'No, it's not Smerdyakov.' It's not his
doing, gentlemen."

"In that case is there anybody else you suspect?" Nikolay
Parfenovitch inquired cautiously.

"I don't know anyone it could be, whether it's the hand of
Heaven or of Satan, but… not Smerdyakov," Mitya jerked out with
decision.

"But what makes you affirm so confidently and emphatically that
it's not he?"

"From my conviction- my impression. Because Smerdyakov is a man
of the most abject character and a coward. He's not a coward, he's
the epitome of all the cowardice in the world walking on two legs.
He has the heart of a chicken. When he talked to me, he was always
trembling for fear I should kill him, though I never raised my hand
against him. He fell at my feet and blubbered; he has kissed these
very boots, literally, beseeching me 'not to frighten him.' Do you
hear? 'Not to frighten him.' What a thing to say! Why, I offered
him money. He's a puling chicken- sickly, epileptic, weak-minded- a
child of eight could thrash him. He has no character worth talking
about. It's not Smerdyakov, gentlemen. He doesn't care for money;
he wouldn't take my presents. Besides, what motive had he for
murdering the old man? Why, he's very likely his son, you know- his
natural son. Do you know that?"

"We have heard that legend. But you are your father's son, too,
you know; yet you yourself told everyone you meant to murder
him."

"That's a thrust! And a nasty, mean one, too! I'm not afraid!
Oh, gentlemen, isn't it too base of you to say that to my face?
It's base, because I told you that myself. I not only wanted to
murder him, but I might have done it. And, what's more, I went out
of my way to tell you of my own accord that I nearly murdered him.
But, you see, I didn't murder him; you see, my guardian angel saved
me- that's what you've not taken into account. And that's why it's
so base of you. For I didn't kill him, I didn't kill him! Do you
hear, I did not kill him."

He was almost choking. He had not been so moved before during
the whole interrogation.

"And what has he told you, gentlemen- Smerdyakov, I mean?" he
added suddenly, after a pause. "May I ask that question?"
