
Mitya uttered his sudden monologue as though he were determined
to be absolutely silent for the future. The prosecutor watched him
the whole time and only when he had ceased speaking, observed, as
though it were the most ordinary thing, with the most frigid and
composed air:

"Oh, about the open door of which you spoke just now, we may as
well inform you, by the way, now, of a very interesting piece of
evidence of the greatest importance both to you and to us, that has
been given us by Grigory, the old man you wounded. On his recovery,
he clearly and emphatically stated, in reply to our questions, that
when, on coming out to the steps, and hearing a noise in the
garden, he made up his mind to go into it through the little gate
which stood open, before he noticed you running, as you have told
us already, in the dark from the open window where you saw your
father, he, Grigory, glanced to the left, and, while noticing the
open window, observed at the same time, much nearer to him, the
door, standing wide open- that door which you have stated to have
been shut the whole time you were in the garden. I will not conceal
from you that Grigory himself confidently affirms and bears witness
that you must have run from that door, though, of course, he did
not see you do so with his own eyes, since he only noticed you
first some distance away in the garden, running towards the
fence."

Mitya had leapt up from his chair half-way through this
speech.

"Nonsense!" he yelled, in a sudden frenzy, "it's a barefaced
lie. He couldn't have seen the door open because it was shut. He's
lying!"

"I consider it my duty to repeat that he is firm in his
statement. He does not waver. He adheres to it. We've
cross-examined him several times."

"Precisely. I have cross-examined him several times," Nikolay
Parfenovitch confirmed warmly.

"It's false, false! It's either an attempt to slander me, or the
hallucination of a madman," Mitya still shouted. "He's simply
raving, from loss of blood, from the wound. He must have fancied it
when he came to… . He's raving."

"Yes, but he noticed the open door, not when he came to after
his injuries, but before that, as soon as he went into the garden
from the lodge."

"But it's false, it's false! It can't be so! He's slandering me
from spite… . He couldn't have seen it… I didn't come from the
door," gasped Mitya.

The prosecutor turned to Nikolay Parfenovitch and said to him
impressively:

