
"Nonsense! It's absurd! I'd no idea it was under the pillow. And
perhaps it wasn't under the pillow at all… . It was just a chance
guess that it was under the pillow. What does Smerdyakov say? Have
you asked him where it was? What does Smerdyakov say? That's the
chief point… . And I went out of my way to tell lies against
myself… . I told you without thinking that it was under the pillow,
and now you- Oh, you know how one says the wrong thing, without
meaning it. No one knew but Smerdyakov, only Smerdyakov, and no one
else… . He didn't even tell me where it was! But it's his doing,
his doing; there's no doubt about it, he murdered him, that's as
clear as daylight now," Mitya exclaimed more and more frantically,
repeating himself incoherently, and growing more and more
exasperated and excited. "You must understand that, and arrest him
at once… . He must have killed him while I was running away and
while Grigory was unconscious, that's clear now… . He gave the
signal and father opened to him… for no one but he knew the signal,
and without the signal father would never have opened the door…
."

"But you're again forgetting the circumstance," the prosecutor
observed, still speaking with the same restraint, though with a
note of triumph, "that there was no need to give the signal if the
door already stood open when you were there, while you were in the
garden… "

"The door, the door," muttered Mitya, and he stared speechless
at the prosecutor. He sank back helpless in his chair. All were
silent.

"Yes, the door!… It's a nightmare! God is against me!" he
exclaimed, staring before him in complete stupefaction.

"Come, you see," the prosecutor went on with dignity, "and you
can judge for yourself, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. On the one hand, we
have the evidence of the open door from which you ran out, a fact
which overwhelms you and us. On the other side, your
incomprehensible, persistent, and, so to speak, obdurate silence
with regard to the source from which you obtained the money which
was so suddenly seen in your hands, when only three hours earlier,
on your own showing, you pledged your pistols for the sake of ten
roubles! In view of all these facts, judge for yourself. What are
we to believe, and what can we depend upon? And don't accuse us of
being 'frigid, cynical, scoffing people,' who are incapable of
believing in the generous impulses of your heart… . Try to enter
into our position… "

Mitya was indescribably agitated. He turned pale.

"Very well!" he exclaimed suddenly, "I will tell you my secret.
I'll tell you where I got the money!… I'll reveal my shame, that I
may not have to blame myself or you hereafter."

"And believe me, Dmitri Fyodorovitch," put in Nikolay
Parfenovitch, in a voice of almost pathetic delight, "that every
sincere and complete confession on your part at this moment may,
later on, have an immense influence in your favour, and may,
indeed, moreover-"

But the prosecutor gave him a slight shove under the table, and
he checked himself in time. Mitya, it is true, had not heard
him.



