
"You mean, 'steal it'? Speak out plainly now. Yes, I consider
that I practically stole it, but, if you prefer, I 'appropriated
it.' I consider I stole it. And last night I stole it finally."

"Last night? But you said that it's a month since you… obtained
it?… "

"Yes. But not from my father. Not from my father, don't be
uneasy. I didn't steal it from my father, but from her. Let me tell
you without interrupting. It's hard to do, you know. You see, a
month ago, I was sent for by Katerina Ivanovna, formerly my
betrothed. Do you know her?"

"Yes, of course."

"I know you know her. She's a noble creature, noblest of the
noble. But she has hated me ever so long, oh, ever so long… and
hated me with good reason, good reason!"

"Katerina Ivanovna!" Nikolay Parfenovitch exclaimed with wonder.
The prosecutor, too, stared.

"Oh, don't take her name in vain! I'm a scoundrel to bring her
into it. Yes, I've seen that she hated me… a long while… . From the
very first, even that evening at my lodging… but enough, enough.
You're unworthy even to know of that. No need of that at all… . I
need only tell you that she sent for me a month ago, gave me three
thousand roubles to send off to her sister and another relation in
Moscow (as though she couldn't have sent it off herself!) and I… it
was just at that fatal moment in my life when I… well, in fact,
when I'd just come to love another, her, she's sitting down below
now, Grushenka. I carried her off here to Mokroe then, and wasted
here in two days half that damned three thousand, but the other
half I kept on me. Well, I've kept that other half, that fifteen
hundred, like a locket round my neck, but yesterday I undid it, and
spent it. What's left of it, eight hundred roubles, is in your
hands now, Nikolay Parfenovitch. That's the change out of the
fifteen hundred I had yesterday."

"Excuse me. How's that? Why, when you were here a month ago you
spent three thousand, not fifteen hundred, everybody knows
that."

"Who knows it? Who counted the money? Did I let anyone count
it?"

"Why, you told everyone yourself that you'd spent exactly three
thousand."

