
"We are discussing this gentleman's most interesting article,"
said Father Iosif, the librarian, addressing the elder, and
indicating Ivan. "He brings forward much that is new, but I think
the argument cuts both ways. It is an article written in answer to
a book by an ecclesiastical authority on the question of the
ecclesiastical court, and the scope of its jurisdiction."

"I'm sorry I have not read your article, but I've heard of it,"
said the elder, looking keenly and intently at Ivan.

"He takes up a most interesting position," continued the Father
Librarian. "As far as Church jurisdiction is concerned he is
apparently quite opposed to the separation of Church from
State."

"That's interesting. But in what sense?" Father Zossima asked
Ivan.

The latter, at last, answered him, not condescendingly, as
Alyosha had feared, but with modesty and reserve, with evident
goodwill and apparently without the slightest arrierepensee

"I start from the position that this confusion of elements, that
is, of the essential principles of Church and State, will, of
course, go on for ever, in spite of the fact that it is impossible
for them to mingle, and that the confusion of these elements cannot
lead to any consistent or even normal results, for there is falsity
at the very foundation of it. Compromise between the Church and
State in such questions as, for instance, jurisdiction, is, to my
thinking, impossible in any real sense. My clerical opponent
maintains that the Church holds a precise and defined position in
the State. I maintain, on the contrary, that the Church ought to
include the whole State, and not simply to occupy a corner in it,
and, if this is, for some reason, impossible at present, then it
ought, in reality, to be set up as the direct and chief aim of the
future development of Christian society!"

"Perfectly true," Father Paissy, the silent and learned monk,
assented with fervour and decision.

"The purest Ultramontanism!" cried Miusov impatiently, crossing
and recrossing his legs.

"Oh, well, we have no mountains," cried Father Iosif, and
turning to the elder he continued: "Observe the answer he makes to
the following 'fundamental and essential' propositions of his
opponent, who is, you must note, an ecclesiastic. First, that 'no
social organisation can or ought to arrogate to itself power to
dispose of the civic and political rights of its members.'
Secondly, that 'criminal and civil jurisdiction ought not to belong
to the Church, and is inconsistent with its nature, both as a
divine institution and as an organisation of men for religious
objects,' and, finally, in the third place, 'the Church is a
kingdom not of this world.'

"A most unworthy play upon words for an ecclesiastic!" Father
Paissy could not refrain from breaking in again. "I have read the
book which you have answered," he added, addressing Ivan, "and was
astounded at the words 'The Church is a kingdom not of this world.
'If it is not of this world, then it cannot exist on earth at all.
In the Gospel, the words 'not of this world' are not used in that
sense. To play with such words is indefensible. Our Lord Jesus
Christ came to set up the Church upon earth. The Kingdom of Heaven,
of course, is not of this world, but in Heaven; but it is only
entered through the Church which has been founded and established
upon earth. And so a frivolous play upon words in such a connection
is unpardonable and improper. The Church is, in truth, a kingdom
and ordained to rule, and in the end must undoubtedly become the
kingdom ruling over all the earth. For that we have the divine
promise."

