
"So be it, so be it!" Father Paissy repeated austerely and
reverently.

"Strange, extremely strange" Miusov pronounced, not so much with
heat as with latent indignation.

"What strikes you as so strange?" Father Iosif inquired
cautiously.

"Why, it's beyond anything!" cried Miusov, suddenly breaking
out; "the State is eliminated and the Church is raised to the
position of the State. It's not simply Ultramontanism, it's
arch-Ultramontanism! It's beyond the dreams of Pope Gregory the
Seventh!"

"You are completely misunderstanding it," said Father Paissy
sternly. "Understand, the Church is not to be transformed into the
State. That is Rome and its dream. That is the third temptation of
the devil. On the contrary, the State is transformed into the
Church, will ascend and become a Church over the whole world- which
is the complete opposite of Ultramontanism and Rome, and your
interpretation, and is only the glorious destiny ordained for the
Orthodox Church. This star will arise in the east!"

Miusov was significantly silent. His whole figure expressed
extraordinary personal dignity. A supercilious and condescending
smile played on his lips. Alyosha watched it all with a throbbing
heart. The whole conversation stirred him profoundly. He glanced
casually at Rakitin, who was standing immovable in his place by the
door listening and watching intently though with downcast eyes. But
from the colour in his cheeks Alyosha guessed that Rakitin was
probably no less excited, and he knew what caused his
excitement.

"Allow me to tell you one little anecdote, gentlemen," Miusov
said impressively, with a peculiarly majestic air. "Some years ago,
soon after the coup d'etat of December, I happened to be calling in
Paris on an extremely influential personage in the Government, and
I met a very interesting man in his house. This individual was not
precisely a detective but was a sort of superintendent of a whole
regiment of political detectives- a rather powerful position in its
own way. I was prompted by curiosity to seize the opportunity of
conversation with him. And as he had not come as a visitor but as a
subordinate official bringing a special report, and as he saw the
reception given me by his chief, he deigned to speak with some
openness, to a certain extent only, of course. He was rather
courteous than open, as Frenchmen know how to be courteous,
especially to a foreigner. But I thoroughly understood him. The
subject was the socialist revolutionaries who were at that time
persecuted. I will quote only one most curious remark dropped by
this person. 'We are not particularly afraid,' said he, 'of all
these socialists, anarchists, infidels, and revolutionists; we keep
watch on them and know all their goings on. But there are a few
peculiar men among them who believe in God and are Christians, but
at the same time are socialists. These are the people we are most
afraid of. They are dreadful people The socialist who is a
Christian is more to be dreaded than a socialist who is an
atheist.' The words struck me at the time, and now they have
suddenly come back to me here, gentlemen."

"You apply them to us, and look upon us as socialists?" Father
Paissy asked directly, without beating about the bush.

But before Pyotr Alexandrovitch could think what to answer, the
door opened, and the guest so long expected, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,
came in. They had, in fact, given up expecting him, and his sudden
appearance caused some surprise for a moment.



