


Chapter

2
Children


AND so on that frosty, snowy, and windy day in November, Kolya
Krassotkin was sitting at home. It was Sunday and there was no
school. It had just struck eleven, and he particularly wanted to go
out "on very urgent business," but he was left alone in charge of
the house, for it so happened that all its elder inmates were
absent owing to a sudden and singular event. Madame Krassotkin had
let two little rooms, separated from the rest of the house by a
passage, to a doctor's wife with her two small children. This lady
was the same age as Anna Fyodorovna, and a great friend of hers.
Her husband, the doctor, had taken his departure twelve months
before, going first to Orenburg and then to Tashkend, and for the
last six months she had not heard a word from him. Had it not been
for her friendship with Madame Krassotkin, which was some
consolation to the forsaken lady, she would certainly have
completely dissolved away in tears. And now, to add to her
misfortunes, Katerina, her only servant, was suddenly moved the
evening before to announce, to her mistress's amazement, that she
proposed to bring a child into the world before morning. It seemed
almost miraculous to everyone that no one had noticed the
probability of it before. The astounded doctor's wife decided to
move Katerina while there was still time to an establishment in the
town kept by a midwife for such emergencies. As she set great store
by her servant, she promptly carried out this plan and remained
there looking after her. By the morning all Madame Krassotkin's
friendly sympathy and energy were called upon to render assistance
and appeal to someone for help in the case.

So both the ladies were absent from home, the Krassotkins'
servant, Agafya, had gone out to the market, and Kolya was thus
left for a time to protect and look after "the kids," that is, the
son and daughter of the doctor's wife, who were left alone. Kolya
was not afraid of taking care of the house, besides he had
Perezvon, who had been told to lie flat, without moving, under the
bench in the hall. Every time Kolya, walking to and fro through the
rooms, came into the hall, the dog shook his head and gave two loud
and insinuating taps on the floor with his tail, but alas! the
whistle did not sound to release him. Kolya looked sternly at the
luckless dog, who relapsed again into obedient rigidity. The one
thing that troubled Kolya was "the kids." He looked, of course,
with the utmost scorn on Katerina's unexpected adventure, but he
was very fond of the bereaved "kiddies," and had already taken them
a picture-book. Nastya, the elder, a girl of eight, could read, and
Kostya, the boy, aged seven, was very fond of being read to by her.
Krassotkin could, of course, have provided more diverting
entertainment for them. He could have made them stand side by side
and played soldiers with them, or sent them hiding all over the
house. He had done so more than once before and was not above doing
it, so much so that a report once spread at school that Krassotkin
played horses with the little lodgers at home, prancing with his
head on one side like a trace-horse. But Krassotkin haughtily
parried this thrust, pointing out that to play horses with boys of
one's own age, boys of thirteen, would certainly be disgraceful "at
this date," but that he did it for the sake of "the kids" because
he liked them, and no one had a right to call him to account for
his feelings. The two "kids" adored him.

But on this occasion he was in no mood for games. He had very
important business of his own before him, something almost
mysterious. Meanwhile time was passing and Agafya, with whom he
could have left the children, would not come back from market. He
had several times already crossed the passage, opened the door of
the lodgers' room and looked anxiously at "the kids" who were
sitting over the book, as he had bidden them. Every time he opened
the door they grinned at him, hoping he would come in and would do
something delightful and amusing. But Kolya was bothered and did
not go in.

At last it struck eleven and he made up his mind, once for all,
that if that "damned" Agafya did not come back within ten minutes
he should go out without waiting for her, making "the kids"
promise, of course, to be brave when he was away, not to be
naughty, not to cry from fright. With this idea he put on his
wadded winter overcoat with its catskin fur collar, slung his
satchel round his shoulder, and, regardless of his mother's
constantly reiterated entreaties that he would always put on
goloshes in such cold weather, he looked at them contemptuously as
he crossed the hall and went out with only his boots on. Perezvon,
seeing him in his outdoor clothes, began tapping nervously, yet
vigorously, on the floor with his tail. Twitching all over, he even
uttered a plaintive whine. But Kolya, seeing his dog's passionate
excitement, decided that it was a breach of discipline, kept him
for another minute under the bench, and only when he had opened the
door into the passage, whistled for him. The dog leapt up like a
mad creature and rushed bounding before him rapturously.

Kolya opened the door to peep at "the kids." They were both
sitting as before at the table, not reading but warmly disputing
about something. The children often argued together about various
exciting problems of life, and Nastya, being the elder, always got
the best of it. If Kostya did not agree with her, he almost always
appealed to Kolya Krassotkin, and his verdict was regarded as
infallible by both of them. This time the "kids"' discussion rather
interested Krassotkin, and he stood still in the passage to listen.
The children saw he was listening and that made them dispute with
even greater energy.

"I shall never, never believe," Nastya prattled, "that the old
women find babies among the cabbages in the kitchen garden. It's
winter now and there are no cabbages, and so the old woman couldn't
have taken Katerina a daughter."

Kolya whistled to himself.
