"Not the whole class: it's only ten of our fellows who go to see
him every day. There's nothing in that."

"What I don't understand in all this is the part that Alexey
Karamazov is taking in it. His brother's going to be tried
to-morrow or next day for such a crime, and yet he has so much time
to spend on sentimentality with boys."

"There's no sentimentality about it. You are going yourself now
to make it up with Ilusha."

"Make it up with him? What an absurd expression! But I allow no
one to analyse my actions."

"And how pleased Ilusha will be to see you! He has no idea that
you are coming. Why was it, why was it you wouldn't come all this
time?" Smurov cried with sudden warmth.

"My dear boy, that's my business, not yours.

I am going of myself because I choose to, but you've all been
hauled there by Alexey Karamazov- there's a difference, you know.
And how do you know? I may not be going to make it up at all. It's
a stupid expression."

"It's not Karamazov at all; it's not his doing. Our fellows
began going there of themselves. Of course, they went with
Karamazov at first. And there's been nothing of that sort of
silliness. First one went, and then another. His father was awfully
pleased to see us. You know he will simply go out of his mind if
Ilusha dies. He sees that Ilusha's dying. And he seems so glad
we've made it up with Ilusha. Ilusha asked after you, that was all.
He just asks and says no more. His father will go out of his mind
or hang himself. He behaved like a madman before. You know he is a
very decent man. We made a mistake then. It's all the fault of that
murderer who beat him then."

"Karamazov's a riddle to me all the same. I might have made his
acquaintance long ago, but I like to have a proper pride in some
cases. Besides, I have a theory about him which I must work out and
verify."

Kolya subsided into dignified silence. Smurov, too, was silent.
Smurov, of course, worshipped Krassotkin and never dreamed of
putting himself on a level with him. Now he was tremendously
interested at Kolya's saying that he was "going of himself" to see
Ilusha. He felt that there must be some mystery in Kolya's suddenly
taking it into his head to go to him that day. They crossed the
market-place, in which at that hour were many loaded wagons from
the country and a great number of live fowls. The market women were
selling rolls, cottons and threads, etc., in their booths. These
Sunday markets were naively called "fairs" in the town, and there
were many such fairs in the year.

Perezvon ran about in the wildest spirits, sniffing about first
one side, then the other. When he met other dogs they zealously
smelt each other over according to the rules of canine
etiquette.
