
All this time Doctor Herzenstube, who was called in by Katerina
Ivanovna, came punctually every other day, but little was gained by
his visits and he dosed the invalid mercilessly. But on that Sunday
morning a new doctor was expected, who had come from Moscow, where
he had a great reputation. Katerina Ivanovna had sent for him from
Moscow at great expense, not expressly for Ilusha, but for another
object of which more will be said in its place hereafter. But, as
he had come, she had asked him to see Ilusha as well, and the
captain had been told to expect him. He hadn't the slightest idea
that Kolya Krassotkin was coming, though he had long wished for a
visit from the boy for whom Ilusha was fretting.

At the moment when Krassotkin opened the door and came into the
room, the captain and all the boys were round Ilusha's bed, looking
at a tiny mastiff pup, which had only been born the day before,
though the captain had bespoken it a week ago to comfort and amuse
Ilusha, who was still fretting over the lost and probably dead
Zhutchka. Ilusha, who had heard three days before that he was to be
presented with a puppy, not an ordinary puppy, but a pedigree
mastiff (a very important point, of course), tried from delicacy of
feeling to pretend that he was pleased. But his father and the boys
could not help seeing that the puppy only served to recall to his
little heart the thought of the unhappy dog he had killed. The
puppy lay beside him feebly moving and he, smiling sadly, stroked
it with his thin, pale, wasted hand. Clearly he liked the puppy,
but… it wasn't Zhutchka; if he could have had Zhutchka and the
puppy, too, then he would have been completely happy.

"Krassotkin!" cried one of the boys suddenly. He was the first
to see him come in.

Krassotkin's entrance made a general sensation; the boys moved
away and stood on each side of the bed, so that he could get a full
view of Ilusha. The captain ran eagerly to meet Kolya.

"Please come in… you are welcome!" he said hurriedly. "Ilusha,
Mr. Krassotkin has come to see you!

But Krassotkin, shaking hands with him hurriedly, instantly
showed his complete knowledge of the manners of good society. He
turned first to the captain's wife sitting in her armchair, who was
very ill-humoured at the moment, and was grumbling that the boys
stood between her and Ilusha's bed and did not let her see the new
puppy. With the greatest courtesy he made her a bow, scraping his
foot, and turning to Nina, he made her, as the only other lady
present, a similar bow. This polite behaviour made an extremely
favourable impression on the deranged lady.

"There,.you can see at once he is a young man that has been well
brought up," she commented aloud, throwing up her hands; "But as
for our other visitors they come in one on the top of another."

"How do you mean, mamma, one on the top of another, how is
that?" muttered the captain affectionately, though a little anxious
on her account.

"That's how they ride in. They get on each other's shoulders in
the passage and prance in like that on a respectable family.
Strange sort of visitors!"

"But who's come in like that, mamma?"

