"Why, that boy came in riding on that one's back and this one on
that one's."

Kolya was already by Ilusha's bedside. The sick boy turned
visibly paler. He raised himself in the bed and looked intently at
Kolya. Kolya had not seen his little friend for two months, and he
was overwhelmed at the sight of him. He had never imagined that he
would see such a wasted, yellow face, such enormous, feverishly
glowing eyes and such thin little hands. He saw, with grieved
surprise, Ilusha's rapid, hard breathing and dry lips. He stepped
close to him, held out his hand, and almost overwhelmed, he
said:

"Well, old man… how are you?" But his voice failed him, he
couldn't achieve an appearance of ease; his face suddenly twitched
and the corners of his mouth quivered. Ilusha smiled a pitiful
little smile, still unable to utter a word. Something moved Kolya
to raise his hand and pass it over Ilusha's hair.

"Never mind!" he murmured softly to him to cheer him up, or
perhaps not knowing why he said it. For a minute they were silent
again.

"Hallo, so you've got a new puppy?" Kolya said suddenly, in a
most callous voice.

"Ye-es," answered Ilusha in a long whisper, gasping for
breath.

"A black nose, that means he'll be fierce, a good house-dog,"
Kolya observed gravely and stolidly, as if the only thing he cared
about was the puppy and its black nose. But in reality he still had
to do his utmost to control his feelings not to burst out crying
like a child, and do what he would he could not control it. "When
it grows up, you'll have to keep it on the chain, I'm sure."

"He'll be a huge dog!" cried one of the boys.

"Of course he will," "a mastiff," "large," "like this," "as big
as a calf," shouted several voices.

"As big as a calf, as a real calf," chimed in the captain. "I
got one like that on purpose, one of the fiercest breed, and his
parents are huge and very fierce, they stand as high as this from
the floor… . Sit down here, on Ilusha's bed, or here on the bench.
You are welcome, we've been hoping to see you a long time… . You
were so kind as to come with Alexey Fyodorovitch?"

Krassotkin sat on the edge of the bed, at Ilusha's feet. Though
he had perhaps prepared a free-and-easy opening for the
conversation on his way, now he completely lost the thread of
it.
