
"And I never saw such a charming fellow as this nice boy," said
the grateful lady, pointing to Krassotkin.

"And I'll bring you as much powder as you like, Ilusha. We make
the powder ourselves now. Borovikov found out how it's made-
twenty-four parts of saltpetre, ten of sulphur and six of birchwood
charcoal. It's all pounded together, mixed into a paste with water
and rubbed through a tammy sieve-that's how it's done."

"Smurov told me about your powder, only father says it's not
real gunpowder," responded Ilusha.

"Not real?" Kolya flushed. "It burns. I don't know, of
course."

"No, I didn't mean that," put in the captain with a guilty face.
"I only said that real powder is not made like that, but that's
nothing, it can be made so."

"I don't know, you know best. We lighted some in a pomatum pot,
it burned splendidly, it all burnt away leaving only a tiny ash.
But that was only the paste, and if you rub it through… but of
course you know best, I don't know… And Bulkin's father thrashed
him on account of our powder, did you hear?" he turned to
Ilusha.

"We had prepared a whole bottle of it and he used to keep it
under his bed. His father saw it. He said it might explode, and
thrashed him on the spot. He was going to make a complaint against
me to the masters. He is not allowed to go about with me now, no
one is allowed to go about with me now. Smurov is not allowed to
either; I've got a bad name with everyone. They say I'm a
'desperate character,'" Kolya smiled scornfully. "It all began from
what happened on the railway."

"Ah, we've heard of that exploit of yours, too," cried the
captain. "How could you lie still on the line? Is it possible you
weren't the least afraid, lying there under the train? Weren't you
frightened?"

The captain was abject in his flattery of Kolya.

"N- not particularly," answered Kolya carelessly. "What's
blasted my reputation more than anything here was that cursed
goose," he said, turning again to Ilusha- but though he assumed an
unconcerned air as he talked, he still could not control himself
and was continually missing the note he tried to keep up.

