"Ah! I heard about the goose!" Ilusha laughed, beaming all over.
"They told me, but I didn't understand. Did they really take you to
the court?"

"The most stupid, trivial affair, they made a mountain of a
mole-hill as they always do," Kolya began carelessly. "I was
walking through the market-place here one day, just when they'd
driven in the geese. I stopped and looked at them. All at once a
fellow, who is an errand-boy at Plotnikov's now, looked at me and
said, 'What are you looking at the geese for?' I looked at him; he
was a stupid, moon-faced fellow of twenty. I am always on the side
of the peasantry, you know. I like talking to the peasants… . We've
dropped behind the peasants that's an axiom. I believe you are
laughing, Karamazov?"

"No, Heaven forbid, I am listening," said Alyosha with a most
good-natured air, and the sensitive Kolya was immediately
reassured."

"My theory, Karamazov, is clear and simple," he hurried on
again, looking pleased. "I believe in the people and am always glad
to give them their due, but I am not for spoiling them, that is a
sine qua non… But I was telling you about the goose. So I turned to
the fool and answered, 'I am wondering what the goose thinks
about.' He looked at me quite stupidly, 'And what does the goose
think about?' he asked. 'Do you see that cart full of oats?'I said.
'The oats are dropping out of the sack, and the goose has put its
neck right under the wheel to gobble them up- do you see?' 'I see
that quite well,' he said. 'Well,' said I, 'if that cart were to
move on a little, would it break the goose's neck or not?' 'It'd be
sure to break it,' and he grinned all over his face, highly
delighted. 'Come on, then,' said I, 'let's try.' 'Let's,' he said.
And it did not take us long to arrange: he stood at the bridle
without being noticed, and I stood on one side to direct the goose.
And the owner wasn't looking, he was talking to someone, so I had
nothing to do, the goose thrust its head in after the oats of
itself, under the cart, just under the wheel. I winked at the lad,
he tugged at the bridle, and crack. The goose's neck was broken in
half. And, as luck would have it, all the peasants saw us at that
moment and they kicked up a shindy at once. 'You did that on
purpose!' 'No, not on purpose.' 'Yes, you did, on purpose!' Well,
they shouted, 'Take him to the justice of the peace!' They took me,
too. 'You were there, too,' they said, 'you helped, you're known
all over the market!' And, for some reason, I really am known all
over the market," Kolya added conceitedly. "We all went off to the
justice's, they brought the goose, too. The fellow was crying in a
great funk, simply blubbering like a woman. And the farmer kept
shouting that you could kill any number of geese like that. Well,
of course, there were witnesses. The justice of the peace settled
it in a minute, that the farmer was to be paid a rouble for the
goose, and the fellow to have the goose. And he was warned not to
play such pranks again. And the fellow kept blubbering like a
woman. 'It wasn't me,' he said, 'it was he egged me on,' and he
pointed to me. I answered with the utmost composure that I hadn't
egged him on, that I simply stated the general proposition, had
spoken hypothetically. The justice of the peace smiled and was
vexed with himself once for having smiled. 'I'll complain to your
masters of you, so that for the future you mayn't waste your time
on such general propositions, instead of sitting at your books and
learning your lessons.' He didn't complain to the masters, that was
a joke, but the matter noised abroad and came to the ears of the
masters. Their ears are long, you know! The classical master,
Kolbasnikov, was particularly shocked about it, but Dardanelov got
me off again. But Kolbasnikov is savage with everyone now like a
green ass. Did you know, Ilusha, he is just married, got a dowry of
a thousand roubles, and his bride's a regular fright of the first
rank and the last degree. The third-class fellows wrote an epigram
on it:

Astounding news has reached the class,

Kolbasnikov has been an ass.

And so on, awfully funny, I'll bring it to you later on. I say
nothing against Dardanelov, he is a learned man, there's no doubt
about it. I respect men like that and it's not because he stood up
for me."

"But you took him down about the founders of Troy!" Smurov put
in suddenly, proud of Krassotkin at such a moment. He was
particularly pleased with the story of the goose.

"Did you really take him down?" the captain inquired, in a
flattering way. "On the question who founded Troy? We heard of it,
Ilusha told me about it at the time."

"He knows everything, father, he knows more than any of us!" put
in Ilusha; "he only pretends to be like that, but really he is top
in every subject… "

Ilusha looked at Kolya with infinite happiness.
