
"Oh, that's all nonsense about Troy, a trivial matter. I
consider this an unimportant question," said Kolya with haughty
humility. He had by now completely recovered his dignity, though he
was still a little uneasy. He felt that he was greatly excited and
that he had talked about the goose, for instance, with too little
reserve, while Alyosha had looked serious and had not said a word
all the time. And the vain boy began by degrees to have a rankling
fear that Alyosha was silent because he despised him, and thought
he was showing off before him. If he dared to think anything like
that, Kolya would-

"I regard the question as quite a trivial one," he rapped out
again, proudly.

"And I know who founded Troy," a boy, who had not spoken before,
said suddenly, to the surprise of everyone. He was silent and
seemed to be shy. He was a pretty boy of about eleven, called
Kartashov. He was sitting near the door. Kolya looked at him with
dignified amazement.

The fact was that the identity of the founders of Troy had
become a secret for the whole school, a secret which could only be
discovered by reading Smaragdov, and no one had Smaragdov but
Kolya. One day, when Kolya's back was turned, Kartashov hastily
opened Smaragdov, which lay among Kolya's books, and immediately
lighted on the passage relating to the foundation of Troy. This was
a good time ago, but he felt uneasy and could not bring himself to
announce publicly that he too knew who had founded Troy, afraid of
what might happen and of Krassotkin's somehow putting him to shame
over it. But now he couldn't resist saying it. For weeks he had
been longing to.

"Well, who did found it?" Kolya, turning to him with haughty
superciliousness. He saw from his face that he really did know and
at once made up his mind how to take it. There was so to speak, a
discordant note in the general harmony.

"Troy was founded by Teucer, Dardanus, Ilius and Tros," the boy
rapped out at once, and in the same instant he blushed, blushed so,
that it was painful to look at him. But the boys stared at him,
stared at him for a whole minute, and then all the staring eyes
turned at once and were fastened upon Kolya, who was still scanning
the audacious boy with disdainful composure.

"In what sense did they found it?" he deigned to comment at
last. "And what is meant by founding a city or a state? What do
they do? Did they go and each lay a brick, do you suppose?"

There was laughter. The offending boy turned from pink to
crimson. He was silent and on the point of tears. Kolya held him so
for a minute.

"Before you talk of a historical event like the foundation of a
nationality, you must first understand what you mean by it," he
admonished him in stern, incisive tones. "But I attach no
consequence to these old wives' tales and I don't think much of
universal history in general," he added carelessly, addressing the
company generally.

"Universal history?" the captain inquired, looking almost
scared.

