"My wife was dreadfully jealous over me, too," Maximov put in
his word.

"Jealous of you?" Grushenka laughed in spite of herself. "Of
whom could she have been jealous?"

"Of the servant girls."

"Hold your tongue, Maximushka, I am in no laughing mood now; I
feel angry. Don't ogle the pies. I shan't give you any; they are
not good for you, and I won't give you any vodka either. I have to
look after him, too, just as though I kept an almshouse," she
laughed.

"I don't deserve your kindness. I am a worthless creature," said
Maximov, with tears in his voice. "You would do better to spend
your kindness on people of more use than me."

"Ech, everyone is of use, Maximushka, and how can we tell who's
of most use? If only that Pole didn't exist, Alyosha. He's taken it
into his head to fall ill, too, to-day. I've been to see him also.
And I shall send him some pies, too, on purpose. I hadn't sent him
any, but Mitya accused me of it, so now I shall send some! Ah,
here's Fenya with a letter! Yes, it's from the Poles- begging
again!

Pan Mussyalovitch had indeed sent an extremely long and
characteristically eloquent letter in which he begged her to lend
him three roubles. In the letter was enclosed a receipt for the
sum, with a promise to repay it within three months, signed by Pan
Vrublevsky as well. Grushenka had received many such letters,
accompanied by such receipts, from her former lover during the
fortnight of her convalescence. But she knew that the two Poles had
been to ask after her health during her illness. The first letter
Grushenka got from them was a long one, written on large notepaper
and with a big family crest on the seal. It was so obscure and
rhetorical that Grushenka put it down before she had read half,
unable to make head or tail of it. She could not attend to letters
then. The first letter was followed next day by another in which
Pan Mussyalovitch begged her for a loan of two thousand roubles for
a very short period. Grushenka left that letter, too, unanswered. A
whole series of letters had followed- one every day- all as pompous
and rhetorical, but the loan asked for, gradually diminishing,
dropped to a hundred roubles, than to twenty-five, to ten, and
finally Grushenka received a letter in which both the Poles begged
her for only one rouble and included a receipt signed by both.

Then Grushenka suddenly felt sorry for them, and at dusk she
went round herself to their lodging. She found the two Poles in
great poverty, almost destitution, without food or fuel, without
cigarettes, in debt to their landlady. The two hundred roubles they
had carried off from Mitya at Mokroe had soon disappeared. But
Grushenka was surprised at their meeting her with arrogant dignity
and self-assertion, with the greatest punctilio and pompous
speeches. Grushenka simply laughed, and gave her former admirer ten
roubles. Then, laughing, she told Mitya of it and he was not in the
least jealous. But ever since, the Poles had attached themselves to
Grushenka and bombarded her daily with requests for money and she
had always sent them small sums. And now that day Mitya had taken
it into his head to be fearfully jealous.

"Like a fool, I went round to him just for a minute, on the way
to see Mitya, for he is ill, too, my Pole," Grushenka began again
with nervous haste. "I was laughing, telling Mitya about it.
'Fancy,' I said, 'my Pole had the happy thought to sing his old
songs to me to the guitar. He thought I would be touched and marry
him!' Mitya leapt up swearing… . So, there, I'll send them the
pies! Fenya, is it that little girl they've sent? Here, give her
three roubles and pack up a dozen pies in a paper and tell her to
take them. And you, Alyosha, be sure to tell Mitya that I did send
them the pies."

"I wouldn't tell him for anything," said Alyosha, smiling.

"Ech! You think he is unhappy about it. Why, he's jealous on
purpose. He doesn't care," said Grushenka bitterly.
