"He listened and said nothing. He told me that he had already
formed his opinion. But he promised to give my words
consideration."

"Consideration! Ah, they are swindlers! They'll ruin him. And
why did she send for the doctor?"

"As an expert. They want to prove that Mitya's mad and committed
the murder when he didn't know what he was doing," Alyosha smiled
gently, "but Mitya won't agree to that."

"Yes; but that would be the truth if he had killed him!" cried
Grushenka. "He was mad then, perfectly mad, and that was my fault,
wretch that I am! But, of course, he didn't do it, he didn't do it!
And they are all against him, the whole town. Even Fenya's evidence
went to prove he had done it. And the people at the shop, and that
official, and at the tavern, too, before, people had heard him say
so! They are all, all against him, all crying out against him."

"Yes, there's a fearful accumulation of evidence," Alyosha
observed grimly.

"And Grigory- Grigory Vassilyevitch- sticks to his story that
the door was open, persists that he saw it- there's no shaking him.
I went and talked to him myself. He's rude about it, too."

"Yes, that's perhaps the strongest evidence against him," said
Alyosha.

"And as for Mitya's being mad, he certainly seems like it now,"
Grushenka began with a peculiarly anxious and mysterious air. "Do
you know, Alyosha, I've been wanting to talk to you about it for a
long time. I go to him every day and simply wonder at him. Tell me,
now, what do you suppose he's always talking about? He talks and
talks and I can make nothing of it. I fancied he was talking of
something intellectual that I couldn't understand in my
foolishness. Only he suddenly began talking to me about a babe-
that is, about some child. 'Why is the babe poor?' he said. 'It's
for that babe I am going to Siberia now. I am not a murderer, but I
must go to Siberia!' What that meant, what babe, I couldn't tell
for the life of me. Only I cried when he said it, because he said
it so nicely. He cried himself, and I cried, too. He suddenly
kissed me and made the sign of the cross over me. What did it mean,
Alyosha, tell me? What is this babe?"

"It must be Rakitin, who's been going to see him lately," smiled
Alyosha, "though… that's not Rakitin's doing. I didn't see Mitya
yesterday. I'll see him to-day."

"No, it's not Rakitin; it's his brother Ivan Fyodorovitch
upsetting him. It's his going to see him, that's what it is,"
Grushenka began, and suddenly broke off. Alyosha gazed at her in
amazement.

"Ivan's going? Has he been to see him? Mitya told me himself
that Ivan hasn't been once."
