
"I'll tell you. This Katya… Ah! she is a charming, charming
creature, only I never can make out who it is she is in love with.
She was with me some time ago and I couldn't get anything out of
her. Especially as she won't talk to me except on the surface now.
She is always talking about my health and nothing else, and she
takes up such a tone with me, too. I simply said to myself, 'Well
so be it. I don't care'… Oh, yes. I was talking of aberration. This
doctor has come. You know a doctor has come? Of course, you know
it- the one who discovers madmen. You wrote for him. No, it wasn't
you, but Katya. It's all Katya's doing. Well, you see, a man may be
sitting perfectly sane and suddenly have an aberration. He may be
conscious and know what he is doing and yet be in a state of
aberration. And there's no doubt that Dmitri Fyodorovitch was
suffering from aberration. They found out about aberration as soon
as the law courts were reformed. It's all the good effect of the
reformed law courts. The doctor has been here and questioned me
about that evening, about the gold mines. 'How did he seem then?'
he asked me. He must have been in a state of aberration. He came in
shouting, 'Money, money, three thousand! Give me three thousand!'
and then went away and immediately did the murder. 'I don't want to
murder him,' he said, and he suddenly went and murdered him. That's
why they'll acquit him, because he struggled against it and yet he
murdered him."

"But he didn't murder him," Alyosha interrupted rather sharply.
He felt more and more sick with anxiety and impatience.

"Yes, I know it was that old man Grigory murdered him."

"Grigory?" cried Alyosha.

"Yes, yes; it was Grigory. He lay as Dmitri Fyodorovitch struck
him down, and then got up, saw the door open, went in and killed
Fyodor Pavlovitch."

"But why, why?"

"Suffering from aberration. When he recovered from the blow
Dmitri Fyodorovitch gave him on the head, he was suffering from
aberration: he went and committed the murder. As for his saying he
didn't, he very likely doesn't remember. Only, you know, it'll be
better, ever so much better, if Dmitri Fyodorovitch murdered him.
And that's how it must have been, though I say it was Grigory. It
certainly was Dmitri Fyodorovitch, and that's better, ever so much
better! Oh! not better that a son should have killed his father, I
don't defend that. Children ought to honour their parents, and yet
it would be better if it were he, as you'd have nothing to cry over
then, for he did it when he was unconscious or rather when he was
conscious, but did not know what he was doing. Let them acquit him-
that's so humane, and would show what a blessing reformed law
courts are. I knew nothing about it, but they say they have been so
a long time. And when I heard it yesterday, I was so struck by it
that I wanted to send for you at once. And if he is acquitted, make
him come straight from the law courts to dinner with me, and I'll
have a party of friends, and we'll drink to the reformed law
courts. I don't believe he'd be dangerous; besides, I'll invite a
great many friends, so that he could always be led out if he did
anything. And then he might be made a justice of the peace or
something in another town, for those who have been in trouble
themselves make the best judges. And, besides, who isn't suffering
from aberration nowadays?- you, I, all of us, are in a state of
aberration, and there are ever so many examples of it: a man sits
singing a song, suddenly something annoys him, he takes a pistol
and shoots the first person he comes across, and no one blames him
for it. I read that lately, and all the doctors confirm it. The
doctors are always confirming; they confirm,- anything. Why, my
Lise is in a state of aberration. She made me cry again yesterday,
and the day before, too, and to-day I suddenly realised that it's
all due to aberration. Oh, Lise grieves me so! I believe she's
quite mad. Why did she send for you? Did she send for you or did
you come of yourself?"

"Yes, she sent for me, and I am just going to her." Alyosha got
up resolutely.

"Oh, my dear, dear Alexey Fyodorovitch, perhaps that's what's
most important," Madame Hohlakov cried, suddenly bursting into
tears. "God knows I trust Lise to you with all my heart, and it's
no matter her sending for you on the sly, without telling her
mother. But forgive me, I can't trust my daughter so easily to your
brother Ivan Fyodorovitch, though I still consider him the most
chivalrous young man. But only fancy, he's been to see Lise and I
knew nothing about it!"

"How? What? When?" Alyosha was exceedingly surprised. He had not
sat down again and listened standing.

