
At the hospital he was at once allowed to see the patient.
Smerdyakov was lying on a truckle-bed in a separate ward. There was
only one other bed in the room, and in it lay a tradesman of the
town, swollen with dropsy, who was obviously almost dying; he could
be no hindrance to their conversation. Smerdyakov grinned
uncertainly on seeing Ivan, and for the first instant seemed
nervous. So at least Ivan fancied. But that was only momentary. For
the rest of the time he was struck, on the contrary, by
Smerdyakov's composure. From the first glance Ivan had no doubt
that he was very ill. He was very weak; he spoke slowly, seeming to
move his tongue with difficulty; he was much thinner and
sallower.Throughout the interview, which lasted twenty minutes, he
kept complaining of headache and of pain in all his limbs. His thin
emasculate face seemed to have become so tiny; his hair was
ruffled, and his crest of curls in front stood up in a thin tuft.
But in the left eye, which was screwed up and seemed to be
insinuating something, Smerdyakov showed himself unchanged. "It's
always worth while speaking to a clever man." Ivan was reminded of
that at once. He sat down on the stool at his feet. Smerdyakov,
with painful effort, shifted his position in bed, but he was not
the first to speak. He remained dumb, and did not even look much
interested.

"Can you. talk to me?" asked Ivan. "I won't tire you much."

"Certainly I can," mumbled Smerdyakov, in a faint voice. "Has
your honour been back long?" he added patronisingly, as though
encouraging a nervous visitor.

"I only arrived to-day… . To see the mess you are in here."

Smerdyakov sighed.

"Why do you sigh? You knew of it all along," Ivan blurted
out.

Smerdyakov was stolidly silent for a while.

"How could I help knowing? It was clear beforehand. But how
could I tell it would turn out like that?"

"What would turn out? Don't prevaricate! You've foretold you'd
have a fit; on the way down to the cellar, you know. You mentioned
the very spot."

"Have you said so at the examination yet?" Smerdyakov queried
with composure.

