"Very good," he commented at last. "You see, I haven't jumped
up, I haven't knocked you down, I haven't killed you. Speak on. So,
according to you, I had fixed on Dmitri to do it; I was reckoning
on him?"

"How could you help reckoning on him? If he killed him, then he
would lose all the rights of a nobleman, his rank and property, and
would go off to exile; so his share of the inheritance would come
to you and your brother Alexey Fyodorovitch in equal parts; so
you'd each have not forty, but sixty thousand each. There's not a
doubt you did reckon on Dmitri Fyodorovitch."

"What I put up with from you! Listen, scoundrel, if I had
reckoned on anyone then, it would have been on you, not on Dmitri,
and I swear I did expect some wickedness from you… at the time… . I
remember my impression!

"I thought, too, for a minute, at the time, that you were
reckoning on me as well," said Smerdyakov, with a sarcastic grin.
"So that it was just by that more than anything you showed me what
was in your mind. For if you had a foreboding about me and yet went
away, you as good as said to me, 'You can murder my parent, I won't
hinder you!"'

"You scoundrel! So that's how you understood it!"

"It was all that going to Tchermashnya. Why! You were meaning to
go to Moscow and refused all your father's entreaties to go to
Tchermashnya- and simply at a foolish word from me you consented at
once! What reason had you to consent to Tchermashnya? Since you
went to Tchermashnya with no reason, simply at my word, it shows
that you must have expected something from me."

No, I swear I didn't!" shouted Ivan, grinding his teeth.

"You didn't? Then you ought, as your father's son, to have had
me taken to the lock-up and thrashed at once for my words then… or
at least, to have given me a punch in the face on the spot, but you
were not a bit angry, if you please, and at once in a friendly way
acted on my foolish word and went away, which was utterly absurd,
for you ought to have stayed to save your parent's life. How could
I help drawing my conclusions?"

Ivan sat scowling, both his fists convulsively pressed on his
knees.

"Yes, I am sorry I didn't punch you in the face," he said with a
bitter smile. "I couldn't have taken you to the lock-up just then.
Who would have believed me and what charge could I bring against
you? But the punch in the face… oh, I'm sorry I didn't think of it.
Though blows are forbidden, I should have pounded your ugly face to
a jelly."

Smerdyakov looked at him almost with relish.
