Ivan did not go home, but went straight to Katerina Ivanovna and
alarmed her by his appearance. He was like a madman. He repeated
all his conversation with Smerdyakov, every syllable of it. He
couldn't be calmed, however much she tried to soothe him: he kept
walking about the room, speaking strangely, disconnectedly. At last
he sat down, put his elbows on the table, leaned his head on his
hands and pronounced this strange sentence: "If it's not Dmitri,
but Smerdyakov who's the murderer, I share his guilt, for I put him
up to it. Whether I did, I don't know yet. But if he is the
murderer, and not Dmitri, then, of course, I am the murderer,
too."

When Katerina Ivanovna heard that, she got up from her seat
without a word, went to her writing-table, opened a box standing on
it, took out a sheet of paper and laid it before Ivan. This was the
document of which Ivan spoke to Alyosha later on as a "conclusive
proof" that Dmitri had killed his father. It was the letter written
by Mitya to Katerina Ivanovna when he was drunk, on the very
evening he met Alyosha at the crossroads on the way to the
monastery, after the scene at Katerina Ivanovna's, when Grushenka
had insulted her. Then, parting from Alyosha, Mitya had rushed to
Grushenka. I don't know whether he saw her, but in the evening he
was at the Metropolis, where he got thoroughly drunk. Then he asked
for pen and paper and wrote a document of weighty consequences to
himself. It was a wordy, disconnected, frantic letter, a drunken
letter, in fact. It was like the talk of a drunken man, who, on his
return home, begins with extraordinary heat telling his wife or one
of his household how he has just been insulted, what a rascal had
just insulted him, what a fine fellow he is on the other hand, and
how he will pay that scoundrel out; and all that at great length,
with great excitement and incoherence, with drunken tears and blows
on the table. The letter was written on a dirty piece of ordinary
paper of the cheapest kind. It had been provided by the tavern and
there were figures scrawled on the back of it. There was evidently
not space enough for his drunken verbosity and Mitya not only
filled the margins but had written the last line right across the
rest. The letter ran as follows:

FATAL KATYA: To-morrow I will get the money and repay your three
thousand and farewell, woman of great wrath, but farewell, too, my
love! Let us make an end! To-morrow I shall try and get it from
everyone, and if I can't borrow it, I give you my word of honour I
shall go to my father and break his skull and take the money from
under the pillow, if only Ivan has gone. It I have to go to Siberia
for it, I'll give you back your three thousand. And farewell. I bow
down to the ground before you, for I've been a scoundrel to you.
Forgive me! No, better not forgive me, you'll be happier and so
shall I! Better Siberia than your love, for I love another woman
and you got to know her too well to-day, so how can you forgive? I
will murder the man who's robbed me! I'll leave you all and go to
the East so as to see no one again. Not her either, for you are not
my only tormentress; she is too. Farewel!

P.S.- I write my curse, but I adore you! I hear it in my
heart.

One string is left, and it vibrates. Better tear my heart in
two! I shall kill myself, but first of all that cur. I shall tear
three thousand from him and fling it to you. Though I've been a
scoundrel to you, I am not a thief! You can expect three thousand.
The cur keeps it under his mattress, in pink ribbon. I am not a
thief, but I'll murder my thief. Katya, don't look disdainful.
Dmitri is not a thief! but a murderer! He has murdered his father
and ruined himself to hold his ground, rather than endure your
pride. And he doesn't love

you.

&gt; P.P.S.- I kiss your feet, farewel!

&gt; P.P.P.S.- Katya, pray to God that someone'll give me the
money.

Then I shall not be steeped in gore, and if no one does- I
shall! Kill me!

Your slave and enemy,

D. KARAMAZOV
