"No, not at all. Next day, in the morning, before they took me
to the hospital, I had a real attack and a more violent one than
I've had for years. For two days I was quite unconscious."

"All right, all right. Go on."

"They laid me on the bed. I knew I'd be the other side of the
partition, for whenever I was ill, Marfa Ignatyevna used to put me
there, near them. She's always been very kind to me, from my birth
up. At night I moaned, but quietly. I kept expecting Dmitri
Fyodorovitch to come."

"Expecting him? To come to you?"

"Not to me. I expected him to come into the house, for I'd no
doubt that he'd come that night, for being without me and getting
no news, he'd be sure to come and climb over the fence, as he used
to, and do something."

"And if he hadn't come?"

"Then nothing would have happened. I should never have brought
myself to it without him."

"All right, all right. speak more intelligibly, don't hurry;
above all, don't leave anything out!"

"I expected him to kill Fyodor Pavlovitch. I thought that was
certain, for I had prepared him for it… during the last few days… .
He knew about the knocks, that was the chief thing. With his
suspiciousness and the fury which had been growing in him all those
days, he was bound to get into the house by means of those taps.
That was inevitable, so I was expecting him."

"Stay," Ivan interrupted; "if he had killed him, he would have
taken the money and carried it away; you must have considered that.
What would you have got by it afterwards? I don't see." 0 "But he
would never have found the money. That was only what I told him,
that the money was under the mattress. But that wasn't true. It had
been lying in a box. And afterwards I suggested to Fyodor
Pavlovitch, as I was the only person he trusted, to hide the
envelope with the notes in the corner behind the ikons, for no one
would have guessed that place, especially if they came in a hurry.
So that's where the envelope lay, in the corner behind the ikons.
It would have been absurd to keep it under the mattress; the box,
anyway, could be locked. But all believe it was under the mattress.
A stupid thing to believe. So if Dmitri Fyodorovitch had committed
the murder, finding nothing, he would either have run away in a
hurry, afraid of every sound, as always happens with murderers, or
he would have been arrested. So I could always have clambered up to
the ikons and have taken away the money next moming or even that
night, and it would have all been put down to Dmitri Fyodorovitch.
I could reckon upon that."

"But what if he did not kill him, but only knocked him
down?"
