
"If he did not kill him, of course, I would not have ventured to
take the money, and nothing would have happened. But I calculated
that he would beat him senseless, and I should have time to take it
then, and then I'd make out to Fyodor Pavlovitch that it was no one
but Dmitri Fyodorovitch who had taken the money after beating
him."

"Stop… I am getting mixed. Then it was Dmitri after all who
killed him; you only took the money?"

"No, he didn't kill him. Well, I might as well have told you now
that he was the murderer… . But I don't want to lie to you now
because… because if you really haven't understood till now, as I
see for myself, and are not pretending, so as to throw your guilt
on me to my very face, you are still responsible for it all, since
you knew of the murder and charged me to do it, and went away
knowing all about it. And so I want to prove to your face this
evening that you are the only real murderer in the whole affair,
and I am not the real murderer, though I did kill him. You are the
rightful murderer."

"Why, why, am I a murderer? Oh, God!" Ivan cried, unable to
restrain himself at last, and forgetting that he had put off
discussing himself till the end of the conversation. "You still
mean that Tchermashnya? Stay, tell me, why did you want my consent,
if you really took Tchermashnya for consent? How will you explain
that now?"

"Assured of your consent, I should have known that you wouldn't
have made an outcry over those three thousand being lost, even if
I'd been suspected, instead of Dmitri Fyodorovitch, or as his
accomplice; on the contrary, you would have protected me from
others… . And when you got your inheritance you would have rewarded
me when you were able, all the rest of your life. For you'd have
received your inheritance through me, seeing that if he had married
Agrafena Alexandrovna, you wouldn't have had a farthing."

"Ah! Then you intended to worry me all my life afterwards,"
snarled Ivan. "And what if I hadn't gone away then, but had
informed against you?"

"What could you have informed? That I persuaded you to go to
Tcherinashnya? That's all nonsense. Besides, after our conversation
you would either have gone away or have stayed. If you had stayed,
nothing would have happened. I should have known that you didn't
want it done, and should have attempted nothing. As you went away,
it meant you assured me that you wouldn't dare to inform against me
at the trial, and that you'd overlook my having the three thousand.
And, indeed, you couldn't have prosecuted me afterwards, because
then I should have told it all in the court; that is, not that I
had stolen the money or killed him- I shouldn't have said that- but
that you'd put me up to the theft and the murder, though I didn't
consent to it. That's why I needed your consent, so that you
couldn't have cornered me afterwards, for what proof could you have
had? I could always have cornered you, revealing your eagerness for
your father's death, and I tell you the public would have believed
it all, and you would have been ashamed for the rest of your
life."

"Was I then so eager, was I?" Ivan snarled again.

"To be sure you were, and by your consent you silently
sanctioned my doing it." Smerdyakov looked resolutely at Ivan. He
was very weak and spoke slowly and wearily, but some hidden inner
force urged him on. He evidently had some design. Ivan felt
that.

"Go on," he said. "Tell me what happened that night."

