Ivan took out the notes and showed them to him. Smerdyakov
looked at them for ten seconds.

"Well, you can go," he said, with a wave of his hand. "Ivan
Fyodorovitch!" he called after him again.

"What do you want?" Ivan turned without stopping.

"Good-bye!"

"Till to-morrow!" Ivan cried again, and he walked out of the
cottage.

The snowstorm was still raging. He walked the first few steps
boldly, but suddenly began staggering. "It's something physical,"
he thought with a grin. Something like joy was springing up in his
heart. He was conscious of unbounded resolution; he would make an
end of the wavering that had so tortured him of late. His
determination was taken, "and now it will not be changed," he
thought with relief. At that moment he stumbled against something
and almost fell down. Stopping short, he made out at his feet the
peasant he had knocked down, still lying senseless and motionless.
The snow had almost covered his face. Ivan seized him and lifted
him in his arms. Seeing a light in the little house to the right he
went up, knocked at the shutters, and asked the man to whom the
house belonged to help him carry the peasant to the police station,
promising him three roubles. The man got ready and came out. I
won't describe in detail how Ivan succeeded in his object, bringing
the peasant to the police-station and arranging for a doctor to see
him at once, providing with a liberal hand for the expenses. I will
only say that this business took a whole hour, but Ivan was well
content with it. His mind wandered and worked incessantly.

"If I had not taken my decision so firmly for to-morrow," he
reflected with satisfaction, "I should not have stayed a whole hour
to look after the peasant, but should have passed by, without
caring about his being frozen. I am quite capable of watching
myself, by the way," he thought at the same instant, with still
greater satisfaction, "although they have decided that I am going
out of my mind!"

Just as he reached his own house he stopped short, asking
himself suddenly hadn't he better go at once to the prosecutor and
tell him everything. He decided the question by turning back to the
house. "Everything together to-morrow!" he whispered to himself,
and, strange to say, almost all his gladness and selfsatisfaction
passed in one instant.

As he entered his own room he felt something like a touch of ice
on his heart, like a recollection or, more exactly, a reminder, of
something agonising and revolting that was in that room now, at
that moment, and had been there before. He sank wearily on his
sofa. The old woman brought him a samovar; he made tea, but did not
touch it. He sat on the sofa and felt giddy. He felt that he was
ill and helpless. He was beginning to drop asleep, but got up
uneasily and walked across the room to shake off his drowsiness. At
moments he fancied he was delirious, but it was not illness that he
thought of most. Sitting down again, he began looking round, as
though searching for something. This happened several times. At
last his eyes were fastened intently on one point. Ivan smiled, but
an angry flush suffused his face. He sat a long time in his place,
his head propped on both arms, though he looked sideways at the
same point, at the sofa that stood against the opposite wall. There
was evidently something, some object, that irritated him there,
worried him and tormented him.




