


Chapter

2
Dangerous Witnesses


I DO NOT know whether the witnesses for the defence and for the
prosecution were separated into groups by the President, and
whether it was arranged to call them in a certain order. But no
doubt it was so. I only know that the witnesses for the prosecution
were called first. I repeat I don't intend to describe all the
questions step by step. Besides, my account would be to some extent
superfluous, because in the speeches for the prosecution and for
the defence the whole course of the evidence was brought together
and set in a strong and significant light, and I took down parts of
those two remarkable speeches in full, and will quote them in due
course, together with one extraordinary and quite unexpected
episode, which occurred before the final speeches, and undoubtedly
influenced the sinister and fatal outcome of the trial.

I will only observe that from the first moments of the trial one
peculiar characteristic of the case was conspicuous and observed by
all, that is, the overwhelming strength of the prosecution as
compared with the arguments the defence had to rely upon. Everyone
realised it from the first moment that the facts began to group
themselves round a single point, and the whole horrible and bloody
crime was gradually revealed. Everyone, perhaps, felt from the
first that the case was beyond dispute, that there was no doubt
about it, that there could be really no discussion, and that the
defence was only a matter of form, and that the prisoner was
guilty, obviously and conclusively guilty. I imagine that even the
ladies, who were so impatiently longing for the acquittal of the
interesting prisoner, were at the same time, without exception,
convinced of his guilt. What's more, I believe they would have been
mortified if his guilt had not been so firmly established, as that
would have lessened the effect of the closing scene of the
criminal's acquittal. That he would be acquitted, all the ladies,
strange to say, were firmly persuaded up to the very last moment.
"He is guilty, but he will be acquitted, from motives of humanity,
in accordance with the new ideas, the new sentiments that had come
into fashion," and so on, and so on. And that was why they had
crowded into the court so impatiently. The men were more interested
in the contest between the prosecutor and the famous Fetyukovitch.
All were wondering and asking themselves what could even a talent
like Fetyukovitch's make of such a desperate case; and so they
followed his achievements, step by step, with concentrated
attention.

But Fetyukovitch remained an enigma to all up to the very end,
up to his speech. Persons of experience suspected that he had some
design, that he was working towards some object, but it was almost
impossible to guess what it was. His confidence and self-reliance
were unmistakable, however. Everyone noticed with pleasure,
moreover, that he, after so short a stay, not more than three days,
perhaps, among us, had so wonderfully succeeded in mastering the
case and "had studied it to a nicety." People described with
relish, afterwards, how cleverly he had "taken down" all the
witnesses for the prosecution, and as far as possible perplexed
them and, what's more, had aspersed their reputation and so
depreciated the value of their evidence. But it was supposed that
he did this rather by way of sport, so to speak, for professional
glory, to show nothing had been omitted of the accepted methods,
for all were convinced that he could do no real good by such
disparagement of the witnesses, and probably was more aware of this
than anyone, having some idea of his own in the background, some
concealed weapon of defence, which he would suddenly reveal when
the time came. But meanwhile, conscious of his strength, he seemed
to be diverting himself.

So, for instance, when Grigory, Fyodor Pavlovitch's old servant,
who had given the most damning piece of evidence about the open
door, was examined, the counsel for the defence positively fastened
upon him when his turn came to question him. It must be noted that
Grigory entered the trial with a composed and almost stately air,
not the least disconcerted by the majesty of the court or the vast
audience listening to him. He gave evidence with as much confidence
as though he had been talking with his Marfa, only perhaps more
respectfully. It was impossible to make him contradict himself. The
prosecutor questioned him first in detail about the family life of
the Karamazovs. The family picture stood out in lurid colours. It
was plain to ear and eye that the witness was guileless and
impartial. In spite of his profound reverence for the memory of his
deceased master, he yet bore witness that he had been unjust to
Mitya and "hadn't brought up his children as he should. He'd have
been devoured by lice when he was little, if it hadn't been for
me," he added, describing Mitya's early childhood. "It wasn't fair
either of the father to wrong his son over his mother's property,
which was by right his."

In reply to the prosecutor's question what grounds he had for
asserting that Fyodor Pavlovitch had wronged his son in their money
relations, Grigory, to the surprise of everyone, had no proof at
all to bring forward, but he still persisted that the arrangement
with the son was "unfair," and that he ought "to have paid him
several thousand roubles more." I must note, by the way, that the
prosecutor asked this question (whether Fyodor Pavlovitch had
really kept back part of Mitya's inheritance) with marked
persistence of all the witnesses who could be asked it, not
excepting Alyosha and Ivan, but he obtained no exact information
from anyone; all alleged that it was so, but were unable to bring
forward any distinct proof. Grigory's description of the scene at
the dinner-table, when Dmitri had burst in and beaten his father,
threatening to come back to kill him, made a sinister impression on
the court, especially as the old servant's composure in telling it,
his parsimony of words, and peculiar phraseology were as effective
as eloquence. He observed that he was not angry with Mitya for
having knocked him down and struck him on the face; he had forgiven
him long ago, he said. Of the deceased Smerdyakov he observed,
crossing himself, that he was a lad of ability, but stupid and
afflicted, and, worse still, an infidel, and that it was Fyodor
Pavlovitch and his elder son who had taught him to be so. But he
defended Smerdyakov's honesty almost with warmth, and related how
Smerdyakov had once found the master's money in the yard, and,
instead of concealing it, had taken it to his master, who had
rewarded him with a "gold piece" for it, and trusted him implicitly
from that time forward. He maintained obstinately that the door
into the garden had been open. But he was asked so many questions
that I can't recall them all.

At last the counsel for the defence began to cross-examine him,
and the first question he asked was about the envelope in which
Fyodor Pavlovitch was supposed to have put three thousand roubles
for "a certain person." "Have you ever seen it, you, who were for
so many years in close attendance on your master?" Grigory answered
that he had not seen it and had never heard of the money from
anyone "till everybody was talking about it." This question about
the envelope Fetyukovitch put to everyone who could conceivably
have known of it, as persistently as the prosecutor asked his
question about Dmitri's inheritance, and got the same answer from
all, that no one had seen the envelope, though many had heard of
it. From the beginning everyone noticed Fetyukovitch's persistence
on this subject.

"Now, with your permission I'll ask you a question,"
Fetyukovitch said, suddenly and unexpectedly. "Of what was that
balsam, or, rather, decoction, made, which, as we learn from the
preliminary inquiry, you used on that evening to rub your lumbago,
in the hope of curing it?"
