"There's nothing to finish. It's all clear. It's the same old
tune, brother. If even you are a sensualist at heart, what of your
brother, Ivan? He's a Karamazov, too. What is at the root of all
you Karamazovs is that you're all sensual, grasping and crazy! Your
brother Ivan writes theological articles in joke, for some idiotic,
unknown motive of his own, though he's an atheist, and he admits
it's a fraud himself- that's your brother Ivan. He's trying to get
Mitya's betrothed for himself, and I fancy he'll succeed, too. And
what's more, it's with Mitya's consent. For Mitya will surrender
his betrothed to him to be rid of her, and escape to Grushenka. And
he's ready to do that in spite of all his nobility and
disinterestedness. Observe that. Those are the most fatal people!
Who the devil can make you out? He recognises his vileness and goes
on with it! Let me tell you, too, the old man, your father, is
standing in Mitya's way now. He has suddenly gone crazy over
Grushenka. His mouth waters at the sight of her. It's simply on her
account he made that scene in the cell just now, simply because
Miusov called her an 'abandoned creature.' He's worse than a
tom-cat in love. At first she was only employed by him in
connection with his taverns and in some other shady business, but
now he has suddenly realised all she is and has gone wild about
her. He keeps pestering her with his offers, not honourable ones,
of course. And they'll come into collision, the precious father and
son, on that path! But Grushenka favours neither of them, she's
still playing with them, and teasing them both, considering which
she can get most out of. For though she could filch a lot of money
from the papa he wouldn't marry her, and maybe he'll turn stingy in
the end, and keep his purse shut. That's where Mitya's value comes
in; he has no money, but he's ready to marry her. Yes, ready to
marry her! to abandon his betrothed, a rare beauty, Katerina
Ivanovna, who's rich, and the daughter of a colonel, and to marry
Grushenka, who has been the mistress of a dissolute old merchant,
Samsonov, a coarse, uneducated, provincial mayor. Some murderous
conflict may well come to pass from all this, and that's what your
brother Ivan is waiting for. It would suit him down to the ground.
He'll carry off Katerina Ivanovna, for whom he is languishing, and
pocket her dowry of sixty thousand. That's very alluring to start
with, for a man of no consequence and a beggar. And, take note, he
won't be wronging Mitya, but doing him the greatest service. For I
know as a fact that Mitya only last week, when he was with some
Gipsy girls drunk in a tavern, cried out aloud that he was unworthy
of his betrothed, Katya, but that his brother Ivan, he was the man
who deserved her. And Katerina Ivanovna will not in the end refuse
such a fascinating man as Ivan. She's hesitating between the two of
them already. And how has that Ivan won you all, so that you all
worship him? He is laughing at you, and enjoying himself at your
expense."

"How do you know? How can you speak so confidently?" Alyosha
asked sharply, frowning.

"Why do you ask, and are frightened at my answer? It shows that
you know I'm speaking the truth."

"You don't like Ivan. Ivan wouldn't be tempted by money."

"Really? And the beauty of Katerina Ivanovna? It's not only the
money, though a fortune of sixty thousand is an attraction."

"Ivan is above that. He wouldn't make up to anyone for
thousands. It is not money, it's not comfort Ivan is seeking.
Perhaps it's suffering he is seeking."

"What wild dream now? Oh, you- aristocrats!"

"Ah, Misha, he has a stormy spirit. His mind is in bondage. He
is haunted by a great, unsolved doubt. He is one of those who don't
want millions, but an answer to their questions."

"That's plagiarism, Alyosha. You're quoting your elder's
phrases. Ah, Ivan has set you a problem!" cried Rakitin, with
undisguised malice. His face changed, and his lips twitched. "And
the problem's a stupid one. It is no good guessing it. Rack your
brains- you'll understand it. His article is absurd and ridiculous.
And did you hear his stupid theory just now: if there's no
immortality of the soul, then there's no virtue, and everything is
lawful. (And by the way, do you remember how your brother Mitya
cried out: 'I will remember!') An attractive theory for
scoundrels!- (I'm being abusive, that's stupid.) Not for
scoundrels, but for pedantic poseurs, 'haunted by profound,
unsolved doubts.' He's showing off, and what it all comes to is,
'on the one hand we cannot but admit' and 'on the other it must be
confessed!' His whole theory is a fraud! Humanity will find in
itself the power to live for virtue even without believing in
immortality. It will find it in love for freedom, for equality, for
fraternity."

Rakitin could hardly restrain himself in his heat, but,
suddenly, as though remembering something, he stopped short.

"Well, that's enough," he said, with a still more crooked smile.
"Why are you laughing? Do you think I'm a vulgar fool?"
