
"Then you did take- but you have not given it back yet… or have
you?"

"That's of no consequence," muttered Rakitin, "I refuse to
answer such questions… . Of course, I shall give it back."

The President intervened, but Fetyukovitch declared he had no
more questions to ask of the witness. Mr. Rakitin left the
witness-box not absolutely without a stain upon his character. The
effect left by the lofty idealism of his speech was somewhat
marred, and Fetyukovitch's expression, as he watched him walk away,
seemed to suggest to the public "this is a specimen of the
lofty-minded persons who accuse him." I remember that this
incident, too, did not pass off without an outbreak from Mitya.
Enraged by the tone in which Rakitin had referred to Grushenka, he
suddenly shouted "Bernard!" When, after Rakitin's
cross-examination, the President asked the prisoner if he had
anything to say, Mitya cried loudly:

"Since I've been arrested, he has borrowed money from me! He is
a contemptible Bernard and opportunist, and he doesn't believe in
God; he took the bishop in!"

Mitya of course, was pulled up again for the intemperance of his
language, but Rakitin was done for. Captain Snegiryov's evidence
was a failure, too, but from quite a different reason. He appeared
in ragged and dirty clothes, muddy boots, and in spite of the
vigilance and expert observation of the police officers, he turned
out to be hopelessly drunk. On being asked about Mitya's attack
upon him, he refused to answer.

"God bless him. Ilusha told me not to. God will make it up to me
yonder."

"Who told you not to tell? Of whom are you talking?"

"Ilusha, my little son. 'Father, father, how he insulted you!'
He said that at the stone. Now he is dying… "

The captain suddenly began sobbing, and plumped down on His
knees before the President. He was hurriedly led away amidst the
laughter of the public. The effect prepared by the prosecutor did
not come off at all.

Fetyukovitch went on making the most of every opportunity, and
amazed people more and more by his minute knowledge of the case.
Thus, for example, Trifon Borissovitch made a great impression, of
course, very prejudicial to Mitya. He calculated almost on his
fingers that on his first visit to Mokroe, Mitya must have spent
three thousand roubles, "or very little less. Just think what he
squandered on those gypsy girls alone! And as for our lousy
peasants, it wasn't a case of flinging half a rouble in the street,
he made them presents of twenty-five roubles each, at least, he
didn't give them less. And what a lot of money was simply stolen
from him! And if anyone did steal, he did not leave a receipt. How
could one catch the thief when he was flinging his money away all
the time? Our peasants are robbers, you know; they have no care for
their souls. And the way he went on with the girls, our village
girls! They're completely set up since then, I tell you, they used
to be poor." He recalled, in fact, every item of expense and added
it all up. So the theory that only fifteen hundred had been spent
and the rest had been put aside in a little bag seemed
inconceivable.

