


Chapter

7
An
Historical Survey


"THE medical experts have striven to convince us that the
prisoner is out of his mind and, in fact, a maniac. I maintain that
he is in his right mind, and that if he had not been, he would have
behaved more cleverly. As for his being a maniac, that I would
agree with, but only in one point, that is, his fixed idea about
the three thousand. Yet I think one might find a much simpler cause
than his tendency to insanity. For my part I agree thoroughly with
the young doctor who maintained that the prisoner's mental
faculties have always been normal, and that he has only been
irritable and exasperated. The object of the prisoner's continual
and violent anger was not the sum itself; there was a special
motive at the bottom of it. That motive is jealousy!"

Here Ippolit Kirillovitch described at length the prisoner's
fatal passion for Grushenka. He began from the moment when the
prisoner went to the "young person's" lodgings "to beat her"- "I
use his own expression," the prosecutor explained- "but instead of
beating her, he remained there, at her feet. That was the beginning
of the passion. At the same time the prisoner's father was
captivated by the same young person- a strange and fatal
coincidence, for they both lost their hearts to her simultaneously,
though both had known her before. And she inspired in both of them
the most violent, characteristically Karamazov passion. We have her
own confession: 'I was laughing at both of them.' Yes, the sudden
desire to make a jest of them came over her, and she conquered both
of them at once. The old man, who worshipped money, at once set
aside three thousand roubles as a reward for one visit from her,
but soon after that, he would have been happy to lay his property
and his name at her feet, if only she would become his lawful wife.
We have good evidence of this. As for the prisoner, the tragedy of
his fate is evident; it is before us. But such was the young
person's 'game.' The enchantress gave the unhappy young man no hope
until the last moment, when he knelt before her, stretching out
hands that were already stained with the blood of his father and
rival. It was in that position that he was arrested. 'Send me to
Siberia with him, I have brought him to this, I am most to blame,'
the woman herself cried, in genuine remorse at the moment of his
arrest.

"The talented young man, to whom I have referred already, Mr.
Rakitin, characterised this heroine in brief and impressive terms:
'She was disillusioned early in life, deceived and ruined by a
betrothed, who seduced and abandoned her. She was left in poverty,
cursed by her respectable family and taken under the protection of
a wealthy old man, whom she still, however, considers as her
benefactor. There was perhaps much that was good in her young
heart, but it was embittered too early. She became prudent and
saved money. She grew sarcastic and resentful against society.'
After this sketch of her character it may well be understood that
she might laugh at both of them simply from mischief, from
malice.

"After a month of hopeless love and moral degradation, during
which he betrayed his betrothed and appropriated money entrusted to
his honour, the prisoner was driven almost to frenzy, almost to
madness by continual jealousy- and of whom? His father! And the
worst of it was that the crazy old man was alluring and enticing
the object of his affection by means of that very three thousand
roubles, which the son looked upon as his own property, part of his
inheritance from his mother, of which his father was cheating him.
Yes, I admit it was hard to bear! It might well drive a man to
madness. It was not the money, but the fact that this money was
used with such revolting cynicism to ruin his happiness!"

Then the prosecutor went on to describe how the idea of
murdering his father had entered the prisoner's head, and
illustrated his theory with facts.

"At first he only talked about it in taverns- he was talking
about it all that month. Ah, he likes being always surrounded with
company, and he likes to tell his companions everything, even his
most diabolical and dangerous ideas; he likes to share every
thought with others, and expects, for some reason, that those he
confides in will meet him with perfect sympathy, enter into all his
troubles and anxieties, take his part and not oppose him in
anything. If not, he flies into a rage and smashes up everything in
the tavern. (Then followed the anecdote about Captain Snegiryov.)
Those who heard the prisoner began to think at last that he might
mean more than threats, and that such a frenzy might turn threats
into actions."

Here the prosecutor described the meeting of the family at the
monastery, the conversations with Alyosha, and the horrible scene
of violence when the prisoner had rushed into his father's house
just after dinner.
