


Chapter

11
There Was No Money. There Was No Robbery


THERE was one point that struck everyone in Fetyukovitch's
speech. He flatly denied the existence of the fatal three thousand
roubles, and consequently, the possibility of their having been
stolen.

"Gentlemen of the jury," he began. "Every new and unprejudiced
observer must be struck by a characteristic peculiarity in the
present case, namely, the charge of robbery, and the complete
impossibility of proving that there was anything to be stolen. We
are told that money was stolen- three thousand roubles but whether
those roubles ever existed, nobody knows. Consider, how have we
heard of that sum, and who has seen the notes? The only person who
saw them, and stated that they had been put in the envelope, was
the servant, Smerdyakov. He had spoken of it to the prisoner and
his brother, Ivan Fyodorovitch, before the catastrophe. Madame
Svyetlov, too, had been told of it. But not one of these three
persons had actually seen the notes, no one but Smerdyakov had seen
them.

"Here the question arises, if it's true that they did exist, and
that Smerdyakov had seen them, when did he see them for the last
time? What if his master had taken the notes from under his bed and
put them back in his cash-box without telling him? Note, that
according to Smerdyakov's story the notes were kept under the
mattress; the prisoner must have pulled them out, and yet the bed
was absolutely unrumpled; that is carefully recorded in the
protocol. How could the prisoner have found the notes without
disturbing the bed? How could he have helped soiling with his
blood-stained hands the fine and spotless linen with which the bed
had been purposely made?

"But I shall be asked: What about the envelope on the floor?
Yes, it's worth saying a word or two about that envelope. I was
somewhat surprised just now to hear the highly talented prosecutor
declare of himself- of himself, observe- that but for that
envelope, but for its being left on the floor, no one in the world
would have known of the existence of that envelope and the notes in
it, and therefore of the prisoner's having stolen it. And so that
torn scrap of paper is, by the prosecutor's own admission, the sole
proof on which the charge of robbery rests, 'otherwise no one would
have known of the robbery, nor perhaps even of the money.' But is
the mere fact that that scrap of paper was lying on the floor a
proof that there was money in it, and that that money had been
stolen? Yet, it will be objected, Smerdyakov had seen the money in
the envelope. But when, when had he seen it for the last time, I
ask you that? I talked to Smerdyakov, and he told me that he had
seen the notes two days before the catastrophe. Then why not
imagine that old Fyodor Pavlovitch, locked up alone in impatient
and hysterical expectation of the object of his adoration, may have
whiled away the time by breaking open the envelope and taking out
the notes. 'What's the use of the envelope?' he may have asked
himself. 'She won't believe the notes are there, but when I show
her the thirty rainbow-coloured notes in one roll, it will make
more impression, you may be sure, it will make her mouth water.'
And so he tears open the envelope, takes out the money, and flings
the envelope on the floor, conscious of being the owner and
untroubled by any fears of leaving evidence.

"Listen, gentlemen, could anything be more likely than this
theory and such an action? Why is it out of the question? But if
anything of the sort could have taken place, the charge of robbery
falls to the ground; if there was no money, there was no theft of
it. If the envelope on the floor may be taken as evidence that
there had been money in it, why may I not maintain the opposite,
that the envelope was on the floor because the money had been taken
from it by its owner?

"But I shall be asked what became of the money if Fyodor
Pavlovitch took it out of the envelope since it was not found when
the police searched the house? In the first place, part of the
money was found in the cash-box, and secondly, he might have taken
it out that morning or the evening before to make some other use of
it, to give or send it away; he may have changed his idea, his plan
of action completely, without thinking it necessary to announce the
fact to Smerdyakov beforehand. And if there is the barest
possibility of such an explanation, how can the prisoner be so
positively accused of having committed murder for the sake of
robbery, and of having actually carried out that robbery? This is
encroaching on the domain of romance. If it is maintained that
something has been stolen, the thing must be produced, or at least
its existence must be proved beyond doubt. Yet no one had ever seen
these notes.

"Not long ago in Petersburg a young man of eighteen, hardly more
than a boy, who carried on a small business as a costermonger, went
in broad daylight into a moneychanger's shop with an axe, and with
extraordinary, typical audacity killed the master of the shop and
carried off fifteen hundred roubles. Five hours later he was
arrested, and, except fifteen roubles he had already managed to
spend, the whole sum was found on him. Moreover, the shopman, on
his return to the shop after the murder, informed the police not
only of the exact sum stolen, but even of the notes and gold coins
of which that sum was made up, and those very notes and coins were
found on the criminal. This was followed by a full and genuine
confession on the part of the murderer. That's what I call
evidence, gentlemen of the jury! In that case I know, I see, I
touch the money, and cannot deny its existence. Is it the same in
the present case? And yet it is a question of life and death.
