
"Yes, I shall be told, but he was carousing that night,
squandering money; he was shown to have had fifteen hundred
roubles- where did he get the money? But the very fact that only
fifteen hundred could be found, and the other half of the sum could
nowhere be discovered, shows that that money was not the same, and
had never been in any envelope. By strict calculation of time it
was proved at the preliminary inquiry that the prisoner ran
straight from those women servants to Perhotin's without going
home, and that he had been nowhere. So he had been all the time in
company and therefore could not have divided the three thousand in
half and hidden half in the town. It's just this consideration that
has led the prosecutor to assume that the money is hidden in some
crevice at Mokroe. Why not in the dungeons of the castle of
Udolpho, gentlemen? Isn't this supposition really too fantastic and
too romantic? And observe, if that supposition breaks down, the
whole charge of robbery is scattered to the winds, for in that case
what could have become of the other fifteen hundred roubles? By
what miracle could they have disappeared, since it's proved the
prisoner went nowhere else? And we are ready to ruin a man's life
with such tales!

"I shall be told that he could not explain where he got the
fifteen hundred that he had. and everyone knew that he was without
money before that night. Who knew it, pray? The prisoner has made a
clear and unflinching statement of the source of that money, and if
you will have it so, gentlemen of the jury, nothing can be more
probable than that statement, and more consistent with the temper
and spirit of the prisoner. The prosecutor is charmed with his own
romance. A man of weak will, who had brought himself to take the
three thousand so insultingly offered by his betrothed, could not,
we are told, have set aside half and sewn it up, but would, even if
he had done so, have unpicked it every two days and taken out a
hundred, and so would have spent it all in a month. All this, you
will remember, was put forward in a tone what brooked no
contradiction. But what if the thing happened quite differently?
What if you've been weaving a romance, and about quite a different
kind of man? That's just it, you have invented quite a different
man!

"I shall be told, perhaps, there are witnesses that he spent on
one day all that three thousand given him by his betrothed a month
before the catastrophe, so he could not have divided the sum in
half. But who are these witnesses? The value of their evidence has
been shown in court already. Besides, in another man's hand a crust
always seems larger, and no one of these witnesses counted that
money; they all judged simply at sight. And the witness Maximov has
testified that the prisoner had twenty thousand in his hand. You
see, gentlemen of the jury, psychology is a two edged weapon. Let
me turn the other edge now and see what comes of it.

"A month before the catastrophe the prisoner was entrusted by
Katerina Ivanovna with three thousand roubles to send off by post.
But the question is: is it true that they were entrusted to him in
such an insulting and degrading way as was proclaimed just now? The
first statement made by the young lady on the subject was
different, perfectly different. In the second statement we heard
only cries of resentment and revenge, cries of long-concealed
hatred. And the very fact that the witness gave her first evidence
incorrectly gives us a right to conclude that her second piece of
evidence may have been incorrect also. The prosecutor will not,
dare not (his own words) touch on that story. So be it. I will not
touch on it either, but will only venture to observe that if a
lofty and high-principled person, such as that highly respected
young lady unquestionably is, if such a person, I say, allows
herself suddenly in court to contradict her first statement, with
the obvious motive of ruining the prisoner, it is clear that this
evidence has been given not impartially, not coolly. Have not we
the right to assume that a revengeful woman might have exaggerated
much? Yes, she may well have exaggerated, in particular, the insult
and humiliation of her offering him the money. No, it was offered
in such a way that it was possible to take it, especially for a man
so easygoing as the prisoner, above all, as he expected to receive
shortly from his father the three thousand roubles that he reckoned
was owing to him. It was unreflecting of him, but it was just his
irresponsible want of reflection that made him so confident that
his father would give him the money, that he would get it, and so
could always dispatch the money entrusted to him and repay the
debt.

"But the prosecutor refuses to allow that he could the same day
have set aside half the money and sewn it up in a little bag.
That's not his character, he tells us, he couldn't have had such
feelings. But yet he talked himself of the broad Karamazov nature;
he cried out about the two extremes which a Karamazov can
contemplate at once. Karamazov is just such a two-sided nature,
fluctuating between two extremes, that even when moved by the most
violent craving for riotous gaiety, he can pull himself up, if
something strikes him on the other side. And on the other side is
love that new love which had flamed up in his heart, and for that
love he needed money; oh, far more than for carousing with his
mistress. If she were to say to him, 'I am yours, I won't have
Fyodor Pavlovitch,' then he must have money to take her away. That
was more important than carousing. Could a Karamazov fail to
understand it? That anxiety was just what he was suffering from-
what is there improbable in his laying aside that money and
concealing it in case of emergency?

"But time passed, and Fyodor Pavlovitch did not give the
prisoner the expected three thousand; on the contrary, the latter
heard that he meant to use this sum to seduce the woman he, the
prisoner, loved. 'If Fyodor Pavlovitch doesn't give the money,' he
thought, 'I shall be put in the position of a thief before Katerina
Ivanovna.' And then the idea presented itself to him that he would
go to Katerina Ivanovna, lay before her the fifteen hundred roubles
he still carried round his neck, and say, 'I am a scoundrel, but
not a thief.' So here we have already a twofold reason why he
should guard that sum of money as the apple of his eye, why he
shouldn't unpick the little bag, and spend it a hundred at a time.
Why should you deny the prisoner a sense of honour? Yes, he has a
sense of honour, granted that it's misplaced, granted it's often
mistaken, yet it exists and amounts to a passion, and he has proved
that.

"But now the affair becomes even more complex; his jealous
torments reach a climax, and those same two questions torture his
fevered brain more and more: 'If I repay Katerina Ivanovna, where
can I find the means to go off with Grushenka?' If he behaved
wildly, drank, and made disturbances in the taverns in the course
of that month, it was perhaps because he was wretched and strained
beyond his powers of endurance. These two questions became so acute
that they drove him at last to despair. He sent his younger brother
to beg for the last time for the three thousand roubles, but
without waiting for a reply, burst in himself and ended by beating
the old man in the presence of witnesses. After that he had no
prospect of getting it from anyone; his father would not give it
him after that beating.

"The same evening he struck himself on the breast, just on the
upper part of the breast where the little bag was, and swore to his
brother that he had the means of not being a scoundrel, but that
still he would remain a scoundrel, for he foresaw that he would not
use that means, that he wouldn't have the character, that he
wouldn't have the will-power to do it. Why, why does the prosecutor
refuse to believe the evidence of Alexey Karamazov, given so
genuinely and sincerely, so spontaneously and convincingly? And
why, on the contrary, does he force me to believe in money hidden
in a crevice, in the dungeons of the castle of Udolpho?

"The same evening, after his talk with his brother, the prisoner
wrote that fatal letter, and that letter is the chief, the most
stupendous proof of the prisoner having committed robbery! 'I shall
beg from everyone, and if I don't get it I shall murder my father
and shall take the envelope with the pink ribbon on it from under
his mattress as soon as Ivan has gone.' A full programme of the
murder, we are told, so it must have been he. 'It has all been done
as he wrote,' cries the prosecutor.

"But in the first place, it's the letter of a drunken man and
written in great irritation; secondly, he writes of the envelope
from what he has heard from Smerdyakov again, for he has not seen
the envelope himself; and thirdly, he wrote it indeed, but how can
you prove that he did it? Did the prisoner take the envelope from
under the pillow, did he find the money, did that money exist
indeed? And was it to get money that the prisoner ran off, if you
remember? He ran off post-haste not to steal, but to find out where
she was, the woman who had crushed him. He was not running to carry
out a programme, to carry out what he had written, that is, not for
an act of premeditated robbery, but he ran suddenly, spontaneously,
in a jealous fury. Yes! I shall be told, but when he got there and
murdered him he seized the money, too. But did he murder him after
all? The charge of robbery I repudiate with indignation. A man
cannot be accused of robbery, if it's impossible to state
accurately what he has stolen; that's an axiom. But did he murder
him without robbery, did he murder him at all? Is that proved?
Isn't that, too, a romance?"

