


Chapter

14
The Peasants Stand Firm


THIS was how Fetyukovitch concluded his speech, and the
enthusiasm of the audience burst like an irresistible storm. It was
out of the question to stop it: the women wept, many of the men
wept too, even two important personages shed tears. The President
submitted, and even postponed ringing his bell. The suppression of
such an enthusiasm would be the suppression of something sacred, as
the ladies cried afterwards. The orator himself was genuinely
touched.

And it was at this moment that Ippolit Kirillovitch got up to
make certain objections. People looked at him with hatred. "What?
What's the meaning of it? He positively dares to make objections,"
the ladies babbled. But if the whole world of ladies, including his
wife, had protested he could not have been stopped at that moment.
He was pale, he was shaking with emotion, his first phrases were
even unintelligible, he gasped for breath, could hardly speak
clearly, lost the thread. But he soon recovered himself. Of this
new speech of his I will quote only a few sentences.

"… I am reproached with having woven a romance. But what is this
defence if not one romance on the top of another? All that was
lacking was poetry. Fyodor Pavlovitch, while waiting for his
mistress, tears open the envelope and throws it on the floor. We
are even told what he said while engaged in this strange act. Is
not this a flight of fancy? And what proof have we that he had
taken out the money? Who heard what he said? The weak-minded idiot,
Smerdyakov, transformed into a Byronic hero, avenging society for
his illegitimate birth- isn't this a romance in the Byronic style?
And the son who breaks into his father's house and murders him
without murdering him is not even a romance- this is a sphinx
setting us a riddle which he cannot solve himself. If he murdered
him, he murdered him, and what's the meaning of his murdering him
without having murdered him- who can make head or tail of this?

"Then we are admonished that our tribune is a tribune of true
and sound ideas and from this tribune of 'sound ideas' is heard a
solemn declaration that to call the murder of a father 'parricide'
is nothing but a prejudice! But if parricide is a prejudice, and if
every child is to ask his father why he is to love him, what will
become of us? What will become of the foundations of society? What
will become of the family? Parricide, it appears, is only a bogy of
Moscow merchants' wives. The most precious, the most sacred
guarantees for the destiny and future of Russian justice are
presented to us in a perverted and frivolous form, simply to attain
an object- to obtain the justification of something which cannot be
justified. 'Oh, crush him by mercy,' cries the counsel for the
defence; but that's all the criminal wants, and to-morrow it will
be seen how much he is crushed. And is not the counsel for the
defence too modest in asking only for the acquittal of the
prisoner? Why not found a charity in the honour of the parricide to
commemorate his exploit among future generations? Religion and the
Gospel are corrected- that's all mysticism, we are told, and ours
is the only true Christianity which has been subjected to the
analysis of reason and common sense. And so they set up before us a
false semblance of Christ! 'What measure ye mete so it shall be
meted unto you again,' cried the counsel for the defence, and
instantly deduces that Christ teaches us to measure as it is
measured to us and this from the tribune of truth and sound sense!
We peep into the Gospel only on the eve of making speeches, in
order to dazzle the audience by our acquaintance with what is,
anyway, a rather original composition, which may be of use to
produce a certain effect- all to serve the purpose! But what Christ
commands us is something very different: He bids us beware of doing
this, because the wicked world does this, but we ought to forgive
and to turn the other cheek, and not to measure to our persecutors
as they measure to us. This is what our God has taught us and not
that to forbid children to murder their fathers is a prejudice. And
we will not from the tribune of truth and good sense correct the
Gospel of our Lord, Whom the counsel for the defence deigns to call
only 'the crucified lover of humanity,' in opposition to all
orthodox Russia, which calls to Him, 'For Thou art our God!'"

At this the President intervened and checked the over-zealous
speaker, begging him not to exaggerate, not to overstep the bounds,
and so on, as presidents always do in such cases. The audience,
too, was uneasy. The public was restless: there were even
exclamations of indignation. Fetyukovitch did not so much as reply;
he only mounted the tribune to lay his hand on his heart and, with
an offended voice, utter a few words full of dignity. He only
touched again, lightly and ironically, on "romancing" and
"psychology," and in an appropriate place quoted, "Jupiter, you are
angry, therefore you are wrong," which provoked a burst of
approving laughter in the audience, for Ippolit Kirillovitch was by
no means like Jupiter. Then, a propos of the accusation that he was
teaching the young generation to murder their fathers, Fetyukovitch
observed, with great dignity, that he would not even answer. As for
the prosecutor's charge of uttering unorthodox opinions,
Fetyukovitch hinted that it was a personal insinuation and that he
had expected in this court to be secure from accusations "damaging
to my reputation as a citizen and a loyal subject." But at these
words the President pulled him up, too, and Fetyukovitch concluded
his speech with a bow, amid a hum of approbation in the court. And
Ippolit Kirillovitch was, in the opinion of our ladies, "crushed
for good."

Then the prisoner was allowed to speak. Mitya stood up, but said
very little. He was fearfully exhausted, physically and mentally.
The look of strength and independence with which he had entered in
the morning had almost disappeared. He seemed as though he had
passed through an experience that day, which had taught him for the
rest of his life something very important he had not understood
till then. His voice was weak, he did not shout as before. In his
words there was a new note of humility, defeat and submission.

"What am I to say, gentlemen of the jury? The hour of judgment
has come for me, I feel the hand of God upon me! The end has come
to an erring man! But, before God, I repeat to you, I am innocent
of my father's blood! For the last time I repeat, it wasn't I
killed him! I was erring, but I loved what is good. Every instant I
strove to reform, but I lived like a wild beast. I thank the
prosecutor, he told me many things about myself that I did not
know; but it's not true that I killed my father, the prosecutor is
mistaken. I thank my counsel, too. I cried listening to him; but
it's not true that I killed my father, and he needn't have supposed
it. And don't believe the doctors. I am perfectly sane, only my
heart is heavy. If you spare me, if you let me go, I will pray for
you. I will be a better man. I give you my word before God I will!
And if you will condemn me, I'll break my sword over my head myself
and kiss the pieces. But spare me, do not rob me of my God! I know
myself, I shall rebel! My heart is heavy, gentlemen… spare me!"
