
He almost fell back in his place: his voice broke: he could
hardly articulate the last phrase. Then the judges proceeded to put
the questions and began to ask both sides to formulate their
conclusions. But I will not describe the details. At last the jury
rose to retire for consultation. The President was very tired, and
so his last charge to the jury was rather feeble. "Be impartial,
don't be influenced by the eloquence of the defence, but yet weigh
the arguments. Remember that there is a great responsibility laid
upon you," and so on and so on.

The jury withdrew and the court adjourned. People could get up,
move about, exchange their accumulated impressions, refresh
themselves at the buffet. It was very late, almost one o'clock in
the night, but nobody went away: the strain was so great that no
one could think of repose. All waited with sinking hearts; though
that is, perhaps, too much to say, for the ladies were only in a
state of hysterical impatience and their hearts were untroubled. An
acquittal, they thought, was inevitable. They all prepared
themselves for a dramatic moment of general enthusiasm. I must own
there were many among the men, too, who were convinced that an
acquittal was inevitable. Some were pleased, others frowned, while
some were simply dejected, not wanting him to be acquitted.
Fetyukovitch himself was confident of his success. He was
surrounded by people congratulating him and fawning upon him.

"There are," he said to one group, as I was told afterwards,
"there are invisible threads binding the counsel for the defence
with the jury. One feels during one's speech if they are being
formed. I was aware of them. They exist. Our cause is won. Set your
mind at rest."

"What will our peasants say now?" said one stout, cross-looking,
pock-marked gentleman, a landowner of the neighbourhood,
approaching a group of gentlemen engaged in conversation.

"But they are not all peasants. There are four government clerks
among them."

"Yes, there are clerks," said a member of the district council,
joining the group.

"And do you know that Nazaryev, the merchant with the medal, a
juryman?"

"What of him?"

"He is a man with brains."

"But he never speaks."

