


Chapter

1
Plans for Mitya's Escape


VERY early, at nine o'clock in the morning, five days after the
trial, Alyosha went to Katerina Ivanovna's to talk over a matter of
great importance to both of them, and to give her a message. She
sat and talked to him in the very room in which she had once
received Grushenka. In the next room Ivan Fyodorovitch lay
unconscious in a high fever. Katerina Ivanovna had immediately
after the scene at the trial ordered the sick and unconscious man
to be carried to her house, disregarding the inevitable gossip and
general disapproval of the public. One of two relations who lived
with her had departed to Moscow immediately after the scene in
court, the other remained. But if both had gone away, Katerina
Ivanovna would have adhered to her resolution, and would have gone
on nursing the sick man and sitting by him day and night. Varvinsky
and Herzenstube were attending him. The famous doctor had gone back
to Moscow, refusing to give an opinion as to the probable end of
the illness. Though the doctors encouraged Katerina Ivanovna and
Alyosha, it was evident that they could not yet give them positive
hopes of recovery.

Alyosha came to see his sick brother twice a day. But this time
he had specially urgent business, and he foresaw how difficult it
would be to approach the subject, yet he was in great haste. He had
another engagement that could not be put off for that same morning,
and there was need of haste.

They had been talking for a quarter of an hour. Katerina
Ivanovna was pale and terribly fatigued, yet at the same time in a
state of hysterical excitement. She had a presentiment of the
reason why Alyosha had come to her.

"Don't worry about his decision," she said, with confident
emphasis to Alyosha. "One way or another he is bound to come to it.
He must escape. That unhappy man, that hero of honour and
principle- not he, not Dmitri Fyodorovitch, but the man lying the
other side of that door, who has sacrificed himself for his
brother," Katya added, with flashing eyes- "told me the whole plan
of escape long ago. You know he has already entered into
negotiations… . I've told you something already… . You see, it will
probably come off at the third etape from here, when the party of
prisoners is being taken to Siberia. Oh, it's a long way off yet.
Ivan Fyodorovitch has already visited the superintendent of the
third etape. But we don't know yet who will be in charge of the
party, and it's impossible to find that out so long beforehand.
To-morrow, perhaps, I will show you in detail the whole plan which
Ivan Fyodorovitch left me on the eve of the trial in case of need…
. That was when- do you remember?- you found us quarrelling. He had
just gone downstairs, but seeing you I made him come back; do you
remember? Do you know what we were quarrelling about then?"

"No, I don't," said Alyosha.

"Of course he did not tell you. It was about that plan of
escape. He had told me the main idea three days before, and we
began quarrelling about it at once and quarrelled for three days.
We quarrelled because, when he told me that if Dmitri Fyodorovitch
were convicted he would escape abroad with that creature, I felt
furious at once- I can't tell you why, I don't know myself why… .
Oh, of course, I was furious then about that creature, and that
she, too, should go abroad with Dmitri!" Katerina Ivanovna
exclaimed suddenly, her lips quivering with anger. "As soon as Ivan
Fyodorovitch saw that I was furious about that woman, he instantly
imagined I was jealous of Dmitri and that I still loved Dmitri.
That is how our first quarrel began. I would not give an
explanation, I could not ask forgiveness. I could not bear to think
that such a man could suspect me of still loving that… and when I
myself had told him long before that I did not love Dmitri, that I
loved no one but him! It was only resentment against that creature
that made me angry with him. Three days later, on the evening you
came, he brought me a sealed envelope, which I was to open at once,
if anything happened to him. Oh, he foresaw his illness! He told me
that the envelope contained the details of the escape, and that if
he died or was taken dangerously ill, I was to save Mitya alone.
Then he left me money, nearly ten thousand- those notes to which
the prosecutor referred in his speech, having learnt from someone
that he had sent them to be changed. I was tremendously impressed
to find that Ivan Fyodorovitch had not given up his idea of saving
his brother, and was confiding this plan of escape to me, though he
was still jealous of me and still convinced that I loved Mitya. Oh,
that was a sacrifice! No, you cannot understand the greatness of
such self-sacrifice, Alexey Fyodorovitch. I wanted to fall at his
feet in reverence, but I thought at once that he would take it only
for my joy at the thought of Mitya's being saved (and he certainly
would have imagined that!), and I was so exasperated at the mere
possibility of such an unjust thought on his part that I lost my
temper again, and instead of kissing his feet, flew into a fury
again! Oh, I am unhappy! It's my character, my awful, unhappy
character! Oh, you will see, I shall end by driving him, too, to
abandon me for another with whom he can get on better, like Dmitri.
But… no, I could not bear it, I should kill myself. And when you
came in then, and when I called to you and told him to come back, I
was so enraged by the look of contempt and hatred he turned on me
that do you remember?- I cried out to you that it was he, he alone
who had persuaded me that his brother Dmitri was a murderer! I said
that malicious thing on purpose to wound him again. He had never,
never persuaded me that his brother was a murderer. On the
contrary, it was I who persuaded him! Oh, my vile temper was the
cause of everything! I paved the way to that hideous scene at the
trial. He wanted to show me that he was an honourable man, and
that, even if I loved his brother, he would not ruin him for
revenge or jealousy. So he came to the court… I am the cause of it
all, I alone am to blame!"

Katya never had made such confessions to Alyosha before, and he
felt that she was now at that stage of unbearable suffering when
even the proudest heart painfully crushes its pride and falls
vanquished by grief. Oh, Alyosha knew another terrible reason of
her present misery, though she had carefully concealed it from him
during those days since the trial; but it would have been, for some
reason, too painful to him if she had been brought so low as to
speak to him now about that. She was suffering for her "treachery"
at the trial, and Alyosha felt that her conscience was impelling
her to confess it to him, to him, Alyosha, with tears and cries and
hysterical writhings on the floor. But he dreaded that moment and
longed to spare her. It made the commission on which he had come
even more difficult. He spoke of Mitya again.
