
"It's all right, it's all right, don't be anxious about him! she
began again, sharply and stubbornly. "All that is only momentary, I
know him, I know his heart only too well. You may be sure he will
consent to escape. It's not as though it would be immediately; he
will have time to make up his mind to it. Ivan Fyodorovitch will be
well by that time and will manage it all himself, so that I shall
have nothing to do with it. Don't be anxious; he will consent to
run away. He has agreed already: do you suppose he would give up
that creature? And they won't let her go to him, so he is bound to
escape. It's you he's most afraid of, he is afraid you won't
approve of his escape on moral grounds. But you must generously
allow it, if your sanction is so necessary," Katya added viciously.
She paused and smiled.

"He talks about some hymn," she went on again, "some cross he
has to bear, some duty; I remember Ivan Fyodorovitch told me a
great deal about it, and if you knew how he talked! Katya cried
suddenly, with feeling she could not repress, "If you knew how he
loved that wretched man at the moment he told me, and how he hated
him, perhaps, at the same moment. And I heard his story and his
tears with sneering disdain. Brute! Yes, I am a brute. I am
responsible for his fever. But that man in prison is incapable of
suffering," Katya concluded irritably. "Can such a man suffer? Men
like him never suffer!" There was a note of hatred and contemptuous
repulsion in her words. And yet it was she who had betrayed him.
"Perhaps because she feels how she's wronged him she hates him at
moments," Alyosha thought to himself. He hoped that it was only "at
moments." In Katya's last words he detected a challenging note, but
he did not take it up.

"I sent for you this morning to make you promise to persuade him
yourself. Or do you, too, consider that to escape would be
dishonourable, cowardly, or something… unchristian, perhaps?" Katya
added, even more defiantly.

"Oh, no. I'll tell him everything," muttered Alyosha. "He asks
you to come and see him to-day," he blurted out suddenly, looking
her steadily in the face. She started, and drew back a little from
him on the sofa.

"Me? Can that be?" She faltered, turning pale.

"It can and ought to be!" Alyosha began emphatically, growing
more animated. "He needs you particularly just now. I would not
have opened the subject and worried you, if it were not necessary.
He is ill, he is beside himself, he keeps asking for you. It is not
to be reconciled with you that he wants you, but only that you
would go and show yourself at his door. So much has happened to him
since that day. He realises that he has injured you beyond all
reckoning. He does not ask your forgiveness- 'It's impossible to
forgive me,' he says himself- but only that you would show yourself
in his doorway."

"It's so sudden… " faltered Katya. "I've had a presentiment all
these days that you would come with that message. I knew he would
ask me to come. It's impossible!"

"Let it be impossible, but do it. Only think, he realises for
the first time how he has wounded you, the first time in his life;
he had never grasped it before so fully. He said, 'If she refuses
to come I shall be unhappy all my life.' you hear? though he is
condemned to penal servitude for twenty years, he is still planning
to be happy- is not that piteous? Think- you must visit him; though
he is ruined, he is innocent," broke like a challenge from Alyosha.
"His hands are clean, there is no blood on them! For the sake of
his infinite sufferings in the future visit him now. Go, greet him
on his way into the darkness- stand at his door, that is all… . You
ought to do it, you ought to!" Alyosha concluded, laying immense
stress on the word "ought."

"I ought to… but I cannot… " Katya moaned. "He will look at me…
. I can't."

"Your eyes ought to meet. How will you live all your life, if
you don't make up your mind to do it now?"

