
Alyosha was delighted too, but he did not know how to get over
the hurdle. Mitya put his powerful hand under his elbow to help him
jump. Tucking up his cassock, Alyosha leapt over the hurdle with
the agility of a bare-legged street urchin.

"Well done! Now come along," said Mitya in an enthusiastic
whisper.

"Where?" whispered Alyosha, looking about him and finding
himself in a deserted garden with no one near but themselves. The
garden was small, but the house was at least fifty paces away.

"There's no one here. Why do you whisper?" asked Alyosha.

"Why do I whisper? Deuce take it" cried Dmitri at the top of his
voice. "You see what silly tricks nature plays one. I am here in
secret, and on the watch. I'll explain later on, but, knowing it's
a secret, I began whispering like a fool, when there's no need. Let
us go. Over there. Till then be quiet. I want to kiss you.

Glory to God in the world,

Glory to God in me… I was just repeating that, sitting here,
before you came."

The garden was about three acres in extent, and planted with
trees only along the fence at the four sides. There were
apple-trees, maples, limes and birch-trees. The middle of the
garden was an empty grass space, from which several hundredweight
of hay was carried in the summer. The garden was let out for a few
roubles for the summer. There were also plantations of raspberries
and currants and gooseberries laid out along the sides; a kitchen
garden had been planted lately near the house.

Dmitri led his brother to the most secluded corner of the
garden. There, in a thicket of lime-trees and old bushes of black
currant, elder, snowball-tree, and lilac, there stood a tumbledown
green summer-house; blackened with age. Its walls were of
lattice-work, but there was still a roof which could give shelter.
God knows when this summer-house was built. There was a tradition
that it had been put up some fifty years before by a retired
colonel called von Schmidt, who owned the house at that time. It
was all in decay, the floor was rotting, the planks were loose, the
woodwork smelled musty. In the summer-house there was a green
wooden table fixed in the ground, and round it were some green
benches upon which it was still possible to sit. Alyosha had at
once observed his brother's exhilarated condition, and on entering
the arbour he saw half a bottle of brandy and a wineglass on the
table.

"That's brandy," Mitya laughed. "I see your look: 'He's drinking
again" Distrust the apparition.

