
"I think not."

"Hush, Alyosha, hush, darling! I could kiss your hand, you touch
me so. That rogue Grushenka has an eye for men. She told me once
that she'd devour you one day. There, there, I won't! From this
field of corruption fouled by flies, let's pass to my tragedy, also
befouled by flies, that is, by every sort of vileness. Although the
old man told lies about my seducing innocence, there really was
something of the sort in my tragedy, though it was only once, and
then it did not come off. The old man who has reproached me with
what never happened does not even know of this fact; I never told
anyone about it. You're the first, except Ivan, of course- Ivan
knows everything. He knew about it long before you. But Ivan's a
tomb."

"Ivan's a tomb?"

Alyosha listened with great attention.

"I was lieutenant in a line regiment, but still I was under
supervision, like a kind of convict. Yet I was awfully well
received in the little town. I spent money right and left. I was
thought to be rich; I thought so myself. But I must have pleased
them in other ways as well. Although they shook their heads over
me, they liked me. My colonel, who was an old man, took a sudden
dislike to me. He was always down upon me, but I had powerful
friends, and, moreover, all the town was on my side, so he couldn't
do me much harm. I was in fault myself for refusing to treat him
with proper respect. I was proud. This obstinate old fellow, who
was really a very good sort, kind-hearted and hospitable, had had
two wives, both dead. His first wife, who was of a humble family,
left a daughter as unpretentious as herself. She was a young woman
of four and twenty when I was there, and was living with her father
and an aunt, her mother's sister. The aunt was simple and
illiterate; the niece was simple but lively. I like to say nice
things about people. I never knew a woman of more charming
character than Agafya- fancy, her name was Agafya Ivanovna! And she
wasn't bad-looking either, in the Russian style: tall, stout, with
a full figure, and beautiful eyes, though a rather coarse face. She
had not married, although she had had two suitors. She refused
them, but was as cheerful as ever. I was intimate with her, not in
'that' way, it was pure friendship. I have often been friendly with
women quite innocently. I used to talk to her with shocking
frankness, and she only laughed. Many woman like such freedom, and
she was a girl too, which made it very amusing. Another thing, one
could never think of her as a young lady. She and her aunt lived in
her father's house with a sort of voluntary humility, not putting
themselves on an equality with other people. She was a general
favourite, and of use of everyone, for she was a clever dressmaker.
She had a talent for it. She gave her services freely without
asking for payment, but if anyone offered her payment, she didn't
refuse. The colonel, of course, was a very different matter. He was
one of the chief personages in the district. He kept open house,
entertained the whole town, gave suppers and dances. At the time I
arrived and joined the battalion, all the town was talking of the
expected return of the colonel's second daughter, a great beauty,
who had just left a fashionable school in the capital. This second
daughter is Katerina Ivanovna, and she was the child of the second
wife, who belonged to a distinguished general's family; although,
as I learnt on good authority, she too brought the colonel no
money. She had connections, and that was all. There may have been
expectations, but they had come to nothing.

"Yet, when the young lady came from boarding-school on a visit,
the whole town revived. Our most distinguished ladies- two
'Excellencies' and a colonel's wife- and all the rest following
their lead, at once took her up and gave entertainments in her
honour. She was the belle of the balls and picnics, and they got up
tableaux vivants in aid of distressed governesses. I took no
notice, I went on as wildly as before, and one of my exploits at
the time set all the town talking. I saw her eyes taking my measure
one evening at the battery commander's, but I didn't go up to her,
as though I disdained her acquaintance. I did go up and speak to
her at an evening party not long after. She scarcely looked at me,
and compressed her lips scornfully. 'Wait a bit. I'll have my
revenge,' thought I. I behaved like an awful fool on many occasions
at that time, and I was conscious of it myself. What made it worse
was that I felt that 'Katenka' was not an innocent boarding-school
miss, but a person of character, proud and really high-principled;
above all, she had education and intellect, and I had neither. You
think I meant to make her an offer? No, I simply wanted to revenge
myself, because I was such a hero and she didn't seem to feel
it.

"Meanwhile, I spent my time in drink and riot, till the
lieutenant-colonel put me under arrest for three days. Just at that
time father sent me six thousand roubles in return for my sending
him a deed giving up all claims upon him- settling our accounts, so
to speak, and saying that I wouldn't expect anything more. I didn't
understand a word of it at the time. Until I came here, Alyosha,
till the last few days, indeed, perhaps even now, I haven't been
able to make head or tail of my money affairs with father. But
never mind that, we'll talk of it later.

"Just as I received the money, I got a letter from a friend
telling me something that interested me immensely. The authorities,
I learnt, were dissatisfied with our lieutenant-colonel. He was
suspected of irregularities; in fact, his enemies were preparing a
surprise for him. And then the commander of the division arrived,
and kicked up the devil of a shindy. Shortly afterwards he was
ordered to retire. I won't tell you how it all happened. He had
enemies certainly. Suddenly there was a marked coolness in the town
towards him and all his family. His friends all turned their backs
on him. Then I took my first step. I met Agafya Ivanovna, with whom
I'd always kept up a friendship, and said, 'Do you know there's a
deficit of 4500 roubles of government money in your father's
accounts?'

"'What do you mean? What makes you say so? The general was here
not long ago, and everything was all right.'

"'Then it was, but now it isn't.'

