


Chapter

5
The Confession of a Passionate Heart- "Heels Up"


"NOW," said Alyosha, "I understand the first half."

"You understand the first half. That half is a drama, and it was
played out there. The second half is a tragedy, and it is being
acted here."

"And I understand nothing of that second half so far," said
Alyosha.

"And I? Do you suppose I understand it?"

"Stop, Dmitri. There's one important question. Tell me, you were
betrothed, betrothed still?"

"We weren't betrothed at once, not for three months after that
adventure. The next day I told myself that the incident was closed,
concluded, that there would be no sequel. It seemed to me caddish
to make her an offer. On her side she gave no sign of life for the
six weeks that she remained in the town; except, indeed, for one
action. The day after her visit the maid-servant slipped round with
an envelope addressed to me. I tore it open; it contained the
change out of the banknote. Only four thousand five hundred roubles
was needed, but there was a discount of about two hundred on
changing it. She only sent me about two hundred and sixty. I don't
remember exactly, but not a note, not a word of explanation. I
searched the packet for a pencil mark n-nothing! Well, I spent the
rest of the money on such an orgy that the new major was obliged to
reprimand me.

"Well, the lieutenant-colonel produced the battalion money, to
the astonishment of everyone, for nobody believed that he had the
money untouched. He'd no sooner paid it than he fell ill, took to
his bed, and, three weeks later, softening of the brain set in, and
he died five days afterwards. He was buried with military honours,
for he had not had time to receive his discharge. Ten days after
his funeral, Katerina Ivanovna, with her aunt and sister, went to
Moscow. And, behold, on the very day they went away (I hadn't seen
them, didn't see them off or take leave) I received a tiny note, a
sheet of thin blue paper, and on it only one line in pencil: 'I
will write to you. Wait. K.' And that was all.
