
Why Ivan Fyodorovitch had come amongst us I remember asking
myself at the time with a certain uneasiness. This fateful visit,
which was the first step leading to so many consequences, I never
fully explained to myself. It seemed strange on the face of it that
a young man so learned, so proud, and apparently so cautious,
should suddenly visit such an infamous house and a father who had
ignored him all his life, hardly knew him, never thought of him,
and would not under any circumstances have given him money, though
he was always afraid that his sons Ivan and Alexey would also come
to ask him for it. And here the young man was staying in the house
of such a father, had been living with him for two months, and they
were on the best possible terms. This last fact was a special cause
of wonder to many others as well as to me. Pyotr Alexandrovitch
Miusov, of whom we have spoken already, the cousin of Fyodor
Pavlovitch's first wife, happened to be in the neighbourhood again
on a visit to his estate. He had come from Paris, which was his
permanent home. I remember that he was more surprised than anyone
when he made the acquaintance of the young man, who interested him
extremely, and with whom he sometimes argued and not without inner
pang compared himself in acquirements.

"He is proud," he used to say, "he will never be in want of
pence; he has got money enough to go abroad now. What does he want
here? Everyone can see that he hasn't come for money, for his
father would never give him any. He has no taste for drink and
dissipation, and yet his father can't do without him. They get on
so well together!"

That was the truth; the young man had an unmistakable influence
over his father, who positively appeared to be behaving more
decently and even seemed at times ready to obey his son, though
often extremely and even spitefully perverse.

It was only later that we learned that Ivan had come partly at
the request of, and in the interests of, his elder brother, Dmitri,
whom he saw for the first time on this very visit, though he had
before leaving Moscow been in correspondence with him about an
important matter of more concern to Dmitri than himself. What that
business was the reader will learn fully in due time. Yet even when
I did know of this special circumstance I still felt Ivan
Fyodorovitch to be an enigmatic figure, and thought his visit
rather mysterious.

I may add that Ivan appeared at the time in the light of a
mediator between his father and his elder brother Dmitri, who was
in open quarrel with his father and even planning to bring an
action against him.

The family, I repeat, was now united for the first time, and
some of its members met for the first time in their lives. The
younger brother, Alexey, had been a year already among us, having
been the first of the three to arrive. It is of that brother Alexey
I find it most difficult to speak in this introduction. Yet I must
give some preliminary account of him, if only to explain one queer
fact, which is that I have to introduce my hero to the reader
wearing the cassock of a novice. Yes, he had been for the last year
in our monastery, and seemed willing to be cloistered there for the
rest of his life.




