"Stay, Smerdyakov, be quiet a minute," cried Fyodor Pavlovitch
once more. "Ivan, your ear again."

Ivan bent down again with a perfectly grave face.

"I love you as I do Alyosha. Don't think I don't love you. Some
brandy?"

"Yes.- But you're rather drunk yourself," thought Ivan, looking
steadily at his father.

He was watching Smerdyakov with great curiosity.

"You're anathema accursed, as it is, Grigory suddenly burst out,
"and how dare you argue, you rascal, after that, if- "

"Don't scold him, Grigory, don't scold him," Fyodor Pavlovitch
cut him short.

"You should wait, Grigory Vassilyevitch, if only a short time,
and listen, for I haven't finished all I had to say. For at the
very moment I become accursed, at that same highest moment, I
become exactly like a heathen, and my christening is taken off me
and becomes of no avail. Isn't that so?"

"Make haste and finish, my boy," Fyodor Pavlovitch urged him,
sipping from his wineglass with relish.

"And if I've ceased to be a Christian, then I told no lie to the
enemy when they asked whether I was a Christian or not a Christian,
seeing I had already been relieved by God Himself of my
Christianity by reason of the thought alone, before I had time to
utter a word to the enemy. And if I have already been discharged,
in what manner and with what sort of justice can I be held
responsible as a Christian in the other world for having denied
Christ, when, through the very thought alone, before denying Him I
had been relieved from my christening? If I'm no longer a
Christian, then I can't renounce Christ, for I've nothing then to
renounce. Who will hold an unclean Tatar responsible, Grigory
Vassilyevitch, even in heaven, for not having been born a
Christian? And who would punish him for that, considering that you
can't take two skins off one ox? For God Almighty Himself, even if
He did make the Tatar responsible, when he dies would give him the
smallest possible punishment, I imagine (since he must be
punished), judging that he is not to blame if he has come into the
world an unclean heathen, from heathen parents. The Lord God can't
surely take a Tatar and say he was a Christian? That would mean
that the Almighty would tell a real untruth. And can the Lord of
Heaven and earth tell a lie, even in one word?"

Grigory was thunderstruck and looked at the orator, his eyes
nearly starting out of his head. Though he did not clearly
understand what was said, he had caught something in this
rigmarole, and stood, looking like a man who has just hit his head
against a wall. Fyodor Pavlovitch emptied his glass and went off
into his shrill laugh.
