
"Alyosha! Alyosha! What do you say to that! Ah, you casuist! He
must have been with the Jesuits, somewhere, Ivan. Oh, you stinking
Jesuit,who taught you? But you're talking nonsense, you casuist,
nonsense, nonsense, nonsense. Don't cry, Grigory, we'll reduce him
to smoke and ashes in a moment. Tell me this, O ass; you may be
right before your enemies, but you have renounced your faith all
the same in your own heart, and you say yourself that in that very
hour you became anathema accursed. And if once you're anathema they
won't pat you on the head for it in hell. What do you say to that,
my fine Jesuit?"

"There is no doubt that I have renounced it in my own heart, but
there no special sin in that. Or if there was sin, it was the most
ordinary."

"How's that the most ordinary?"

"You lie, accursed one!" hissed Grigory.

"Consider yourself, Grigory Vassilyevitch," Smerdyakov went on,
staid and unruffled, conscious of his triumph, but, as it were,
generous to the vanquished foe. "Consider yourself, Grigory
Vassilyevitch; it is said in the Scripture that if you have faith,
even as a mustard seed, and bid a mountain move into the sea, it
will move without the least delay at your bidding. Well, Grigory
Vassilyevitch, if I'm without faith and you have so great a faith
that you are continually swearing at me, you try yourself telling
this mountain, not to move into the sea for that's a long way off,
but even to our stinking little river which runs at the bottom of
the garden. You'll see for yourself that it won't budge, but will
remain just where it is however much you shout at it, and that
shows, Grigory Vassilyevitch, that you haven't faith in the proper
manner, and only abuse others about it. Again, taking into
consideration that no one in our day, not only you, but actually no
one, from the highest person to the lowest peasant, can shove
mountains into the sea- except perhaps some one man in the world,
or, at most, two, and they most likely are saving their souls in
secret somewhere in the Egyptian desert, so you wouldn't find them-
if so it be, if all the rest have no faith, will God curse all the
rest? that is, the population of the whole earth, except about two
hermits in the desert, and in His well-known mercy will He not
forgive one of them? And so I'm persuaded that though I may once
have doubted I shall be forgiven if I shed tears of
repentance."

"Stay!" cried Fyodor Pavlovitch, in a transport of delight. "So
you do suppose there are two who can move mountains? Ivan, make a
note of it, write it down. There you have the Russian all
over!"

"You're quite right in saying it's characteristic of the
people's faith," Ivan assented, with an approving smile.

"You agree. Then it must be so, if you agree. It's true, isn't
it Alyosha? That's the Russian faith all over, isn't it?"

"No, Smerdyakov has not the Russian faith at all," said Alyosha
firmly and gravely.

"I'm not talking about his faith. I mean those two in the
desert, only that idea. Surely that's Russian, isn't it?"

